# 商务英语 Level 3

## Unit 1

**Part 1**

**Vocabulary**

**Office Supplies**

A printer.

You can use a printer to turn a computer file into a paper document.
Printing too much can waste paper.

A charger.

You can plug a charger into a laptop to restore its battery power. If
you don\'t use the charger your laptop will lose battery power.

A monitor.

You can connect the monitor to your computer to display images. Looking
at a monitor for too long is bad for your eyes.

A laptop.

You can use a laptop to work from different places. When a laptop is not
plugged in for a long time, it will shut down.

A projector.

You can use a projector to show a computer screen on a larger screen.
When people are in the meeting, they may need to show something on the
computer.

**Interview Actions**

To post a job.

To post a job means to make it available for people to apply for it.
When you need to find someone for a job, you can post a listing on the
Internet.

To screen someone.

To screen someone means to determine whether they meet basic job
requirements. When a candidate applies for a job, you need to screen
them first. This can be done by checking their resume and having a phone
interview.

To interview someone.

To interview someone means to meet them to find out if they are suitable
for a job. During an interview, the interviewee will be asked questions
by the interviewer.

To hire someone.

To hire someone means to employ them to do a job. Hiring skilled
employees is important for a business to succeed. Hiring the wrong
person can waste a lot of time, and money for a company. To train
someone.

To train someone means to teach them knowledge or skills necessary for a
job. A common way to

train employees is called the OJT or on the job training. This means to
train new employees while they do their jobs.

**College Majors**

Biology.

Biology is the study of life, including its structure and evolution.
Biology majors learn about how life survives and reproduces. Biology
graduates may go on to work in library search, education or healthcare.

Mathematics.

Mathematics is the study of numbers, shapes, haters and change. People
with a math degree may go on to work in engineering, finance or
education.

Computer science.

Computer science is the study of how computers are used and programmed.
Computer science graduates may go on to work as software engineers or IT
technicians.

Language and literature.

Language and literature majors learn about written works and language.
Language and literature graduates often go on to work in publishing,
media and education.

Economics.

I cannot mix majors, learn about how money and resources are produced,
used and transferred. People with an economics degree may work in
accounting, finance or education.

**Jobs at the Office**

A receptionist.

Receptionists sit in the front of an office. They usually answer phone
calls, Greek people and signed for packages. Receptionists need to deal
with people in a friendly way.

An IT technician.

IT technicians maintain an office is computer network. They also provide
technical support to employees. If your computer or Internet connection
has a problem, you can call an IT technician. An HR manager.

HR managers are responsible for hiring and retaining its employees. They
need to find people with

the right qualifications for a position.

A designer.

Designers plan the look and function of something before it\'s made. He
worked in a variety of areas such as fashion architecture or technology.

An engineer.

Engineers design, test and maintain something in a systematic way. I
helped develop many things such as computer software, cars or buildings.

An accountant.

Accountants maintain and organize a company\'s finances. They keep track
of how much money a company earns and spends.

**Dialogue**

**Getting Ahead**

M: Hi, I don\'t think we have met. My name is Mike.

W: No, I don\'t think we have, I am Jenny. It\'s, nice to meet you,
Mike.

M: Nice to meet you, too. So Jenny, where do you work?

W: I work at Maxwell Eommerce Company. We sell clothes and accessories
online.

M: Oh, I\'ve heard of your company, my girlfriend uses it all the time.

W: Really? That\'s cool. So what do you do, Mike?

M: I work for J. hill. It\'s a fashion company.

W: What do you do there?

M: I\'m a shop assistant at one of their stores, I assist customers and
make sure our items are well displayed.

W: Well, I don\'t usually need a lot of shop assistants at these
networking events.

M: Well, I am looking for a career change. I want to stay in fashion,
but I also want to do something more challenging.

W: What kind of job are you interested in?

M: Well, I majored in business in college. And I enjoy helping customers
learn about good products. So I want to do something in sales or
marketing.

W: That\'s interesting. Why don\'t you try to find a marketing position
in J. hill?

M: Oh, I don\'t think there are a lot of opportunities for me there.

W: Well, our marketing team is hiring interns right now, of course, the
position doesn\'t pay, but our M: interns have a lot of opportunities.

W: That\'s good to know, though the pay doesn\'t sound very good.

M: If it interests you, there is more information on our company\'s
website.

W: Thank you for the suggestion. I\'ll looking to it.

M: Okay, here\'s my business card. Feel free to contact me if you have
any questions.

W: Thanks again, it was nice talking with you.

M: Nice talking to you, too. Good luck.

**Part 2**

**Vocabulary**

**Introducing a Company**

Knowing how to introduce your company is an important skill in business.
An effective introduction will get the attention of potential partners.
Begin the introduction, I describing when and why your company was
established. If people understand your company\'s purpose, they may
become interested in it.

Next you should explain your company\'s products or services. Talk about
what they do, and how they

solve problems. You can also mention how the products or services are
different from competitors.

In addition, it\'s good to talk about your company\'s target market.
Describe the type of customers your company wants to attract.

Sometimes you may need to talk about your company culture. When people
share the same values,

they will be more interested in doing business with you.

You can also mention where your company is located. You can talk about
its headquarters branch offices and retail stores.

By doing so potential business partners can learn about the size of your
company.

**Company Locations**

Headquarters.

A headquarters or HQ is where accompanies leadership is located. A
company\'s most important meetings are usually held at its headquarters.

Branch office.

A branch is an office or store that makes up part of a large business.
Companies set up branches to reach customers in different locations.

Department.

A department is a part of the company that oversees a specific area.
Companies create departments to oversee different responsibilities and
functions.

Retail store.

A retail store is a place that sells products directly to the public. It
can be both a physical store or an online store. Online retail stores
are becoming more popular because they are easy to buy from.
Distribution center.

A distribution center is the building where many products are kept for a
short time. These products

are then since two factories, stores or customers when needed. For
example, most supermarkets need distribution centers in order to provide
goods quickly.

**Types of Industries**

The hospitality industry.

The hospitality industry focuses on providing customer service.
Businesses in this industry include hotels, restaurants and bars.

The real estate industry.

The real estate industry involves the selling, buying and renting of
land buildings and houses. When people want to buy or sell a house they
can use a real estate agency for help.

The manufacturing industry.

The manufacturing industry produces goods in order to sell them.
Companies use both people and machines to make products on a large
scale. Manufacturing companies use both people and machines to make
products on a large scale.

The transportation industry.

The transportation industry involves bringing people or things from one
place to another. Businesses in this industry include airline railroad
and bus companies. Many companies rely on transportation to ship goods
to their stores or customers.

The healthcare industry.

The healthcare industry helps people look after their body and mind. It
is businesses such as health insurance companies and medicine companies.

The finance industry.

The finance industry deals with the management of money. Common
businesses in finance industry include banks and investment companies.
Most people depend on these businesses to take care of their money.

**Performance Terms**

Sales.

A company\'s sales are the total amount of items it sells. They can
increase sales by improving their products or advertising.

Profit.

A company\'s profit is the total amount of money it makes after paying
its costs. For a company to earn a profit, it needs to make more money
than it spends. A company can increase its profits by selling more goods
or lowering its costs.

Turnover.

Turnover is how fast store\'s products are sold and replaced by others.
How our business to have

high turnover, it needs to sell things quickly. Large supermarkets
usually have high turnover because they sell many items every day.

Customer base.

A company\'s customer base is a group of people that often buys its
goods or services. Companies usually make most of their sales from their
customer base.

Competitor.

Competitors are companies in the same industry that compete for
customers. Companies want to get more sales than their competitors.

Market segment.

A market segment is a group of customers that shares something in
common. Market segments can be based on many things such as needs age
and income. In order to sell successfully companies need to know a lot
about their market segments.

**Dialogue**

**Researching a Startup**

M1: Hey,man. What are you doing?

M2: I\'m looking for a new job, so I\'m researching some companies.
Check out this one.

M1: LipSync, nice office. Where is it based?

M2: It\'s in Shanghai.

M1: Oh, awesome. You\'re always talking about moving to China. What kind
of company is LipSync? M2: It\'s an attacking education company, it has
some great online English language courses, people can study on their
smartphones.

M1: Cool, this kind of app is getting to be more popular. My buddy gave
uses one to study Italian.

And I always see you using apps to study Chinese.

M2: Yeah, these apps are the future of language learning. They\'re more
effective than traditional textbooks. And you can use them anywhere. I
study with my Chinese app on my way to work every day. It\'s super
convenient.

M1: Are you using any of LipSync courses?

M2: I am, it\'s really well designed. It\'s much better than my Chinese
app.

M1: Nice. So is LipSyncy a big company?

M2: Actually, it\'s a startup. It was founded a few years ago, but it\'s
growing very fast. They already have 40,000,000 users.

M1: It sounds exciting. You\'re going to apply to this place, right?

M2: Well, I want to, but I don\'t think I have enough experience. Look
at this shop for our curriculum writer. It says I need three years of
writing experience. I don\'t have that.

M1: But you have to years of teaching experience, right?

M2: Yeah, do you think that\'s enough?

M1: Well, I don\'t know. I\'m not a recruiter. But I, you start ups
always need hard working smart people.

M2: Do you think that\'s enough?

M1: You know a lot about language learning apps and your Chinese is
great. You probably more qualified than you think. Don\'t think so much
and just apply.

M2: Yeah, you\'re right, I will.

**Part 3**

**Vocabulary**

**Types of Schedules**

Fixed schedule.

With a fixed schedule employees start, and leave work at the same time
each day. As a result, it is easy for employers to keep track of what
employees are doing.

Flexible schedule.

A flexible schedule allows employees to change their schedules,
depending on their needs. But employees may have different working
hours. So it may be difficult for employers to organise work among their
employees.

Part-time job.

In a part time job employees can have a shorter working week than
regular employees. For example, a part time employee may work less than
30 hours a week.

Full-time job.

The full-time job employees usually have the same working hours each
week. For instance many full-time employees work 35 to 40 hours per
week.

Shift.

In the shift one group of workers start work as another group finishes.
For instance, to provide 24 hour service to patients, doctors at the
hospital worked in shifts. Shifts can vary from six hours to eight or
more hours depending on their daily schedule.

**Operational Actions**

To require.

To require means to need something. If your manager requires you to work
from nine to five every day, you need to do it.

To arrange.

To arrange something means to organize it or make plans for it. When you
want to take a vacation,you need to arrange the days off with your boss.

To communicate.

To communicate means to share information, news or ideas. Being able to
communicate will lead to more effective teamwork.

To control.

To control something means you have power over it. If you\'re in control
of something you can make important decisions about it. Some people
prefer more flexibility at work because they want to control their
schedule.

**How & when We Work**

Overtime.

Overtime is time worked beyond your scheduled working hours. Over time
can be paid or unpaid, depending on the company policy. If you can\'t
finish your work on time, you may need to work overtime.

Time off.

Time off is time spent away from work, usually to go on vacation.
Employees often have one to two weeks pay time off each year, depending
on the contracts. If you want to take more time off. You will need to
talk with your manager.

Break.

A break is time taken to rest during the working day, usually for a
short period of time. When employees take breaks, they may go get coffee
or watch videos online.

Absence.

An absence is time spent away from work, possibly due to illness or
injury. If you have a bad fever. You should probably call in an absent.
Sometimes absent employees need a note from a doctor. But it depends on
their manager.

Commute.

A commute is a regular journey taken to and from work. Your work
schedule may depend on how long your commute is. So if you have a long
commute, you may want to arrange a more flexible work schedule.

**Types of Employment**

Temporary worker.

Temporary workers work for a company on a short term basis. Companies
usually hire temporary workers when they need help for a specific period
of time. For example, a store may hire temporary workers to work during
the holidays.

Freelancer.

Freelancers work for different companies, but are not employed by them
full time. Companies usually hire freelancers when they need help for a
single project. For example, a company may hire a freelance designer to
create its website.

Consultant.

Consultants provide special knowledge and expertise to companies.
Companies often hire consultants when they need experts knowledge. For
example, a company may hire a consultant to develop a business strategy
for a new country.

Entrepreneur.

Entrepreneurs start and often run their own companies. They usually
start companies to offer something new and exciting to consumers.

Volunteer.

Volunteers work for an organization without being paid. They usually
fall on tier to help other people or to develop skills. Organizations
that help poor or hungry people may have many volunteers.

**Dialogue**

**Talking about Schedules**

M1: Hey,Adams. I\'m sorry I\'m late. I got held up at the office.

M2: Don\'t worry about it, Peter, how were things going?

M1: Well, investment banking doesn\'t have the easiest schedule in the
world, sometimes I get home in midnight, or even later.

M2: I had no idea you were working those kinds of hours.

M1: You know, I complain, but it\'s not as bad as it sounds. I like the
pressure. Most of my clients are in Asia around the world, so sometimes
schedule is crazy.

M2: Right. When it\'s night time over here, the day over there is just
starting.

M1: Yeah, and if there\'s an emergency of any kind. It usually happens
late at night.

M2: How is that not bad?

M1: Well, the people I\'m dealing with are interesting, and even the
schedule is flexible. If we don\'t have anything really urgent to do my
boss will let us leave early.

M2: Really? My boss doesn\'t understand work life balance. Last Friday,
He gave me an assignment

at 5:45, just as I was getting ready to go home. It took me three hours
to finish.

M1: I thought your job was nine to five.

M2: We often work later than were supposed to.

M1: But then you get a lot of overtime pay, right?

M2: Actually, no is the office culture, especially if you want to get a
raise or promotion. In fact, all of the team\'s work longer than their
regular hours.

M1: Emmm. . . My last job was a lot like yours, we were expected to be
in the office all the time,

even if there was nothing to do. So I feel for you, man.

M2: Thanks, hopefully it will get better. Hey, if you feel so bad for
me, why don\'t you get the drinks tonight?

M1: Sure, I can do that. Ah, two beers, please.

M2: Next time, it\'ll be on me.

**Part 4**

**Vocabulary**

**Elements of Comparison**

Companies may produce similar products to attract the same target
market. But these products can differ in many ways, such as their prices
and features.

A product comparison, including product\'s strengths and weaknesses.
List the main features of each

product and analyzed them.

Different features can appeal to different customers. So consider how
features of each product made customers needs.

Compare the prices of each product. Price is one of the major factors
that affect consumers \'

decision making.

In addition to the purchase price you can also mention hidden costs,
such as the cost of maintenance. It\'s also useful to compare warranties
between products.

Under a warranty, a company will replace a broken product within a
specific time frame. A good

warranty will last for a year or even longer.

You may want to consider the soft aspects of the products such as their
reputations. A product\'s reputation can show how it is viewed by
customers.

You can compare products may be at Asians by looking at customer reviews
and readings. Another

important soft aspect is a product\'s brand association.

Customers often associated product with a logo, an idea or a celebrity.
Brand association can

strongly influence people\'s buying decisions.

**Product Features 1**

Performance.

I product performance refers to how well it works. For example,
customers are willing to pay more for high performance cars because they
work well.

Durability.

Durability is how long a product can be used without breaking or getting
weaker. If a product is

durable won\'t need to be replaced for a long time.

Cost effectiveness.

Cost effectiveness is how useful something is compared to its cost. If
you just want to send e-mails, and expensive computer may not be cost
effective. But it may be more cost effective if you use a lot of
software.

Appearance.

A product\'s appearance is how it looks. Some customers prefer to buy
products with a better appearance, even if they cost more.

Product reputable.

A product\'s reputation refers to how it is viewed by others. A strong
reputation often leads to high sales. If a product has a bad reputation,
people may not buy it even if it\'s cheap.

Safety.

Safety refers to how safe something is to use. Safety is often a concern
for parents when buying products for their children.

**Product Features 2**

Buying decision.

A buying decision is someone\'s choice of whether to buy something and
want to buy. It can be influenced by a products price, quality or
reputation.

User experience.

User experience describes how someone feels when using a product.
Product with a great user experience are well designed, easy to use and
effective. If a product has a poor user experience, it can make people
upset, impatient or even angry.

User friendliness.

User friendliness is how easy something is to use or understand. User
friendly websites are organized, clear and straightforward.

Customer service.

Customer service is the help of business provides for its customers.
Restaurants need to offer great customer service to be successful.

Customer review.

A custom view is a report about product or service written by a
customer. Customer reviews can strongly influence a company\'s
reputation. People often read customer reviews to decide if they want to
buy a product.

**Describing Products**

Efficient.

If product is efficient, it can work well without wasting money, time
and effort. A fuel efficient car can go a long distance without using
much gas. Efficient service at a restaurant can save customers time, and
not keep them waiting.

High-end.

High-end products are more expensive and well made than other products.
Many people buy high- end goods because they want the best quality. But
others don\'t buy them because they think they aren\'t cost effective.

Sophisticated.

Sophisticated products are well designed and use complex technology.
Today\'s computers are more sophisticated than computers in the past.
They are more user friendly, and can perform more complicated tasks.

Multifunctional.

Multifunctional products have many different uses. Smartphones are
multifunctional. They can be used to surf the Internet, listen to music
and take photos.

**Dialogue**

**Comparing Phones**

W: I think I\'m going to get a Sonic phone.

M: Are you sure? Don\'t you think it\'s a bit expensive, the viva is
just as good and it\'s much cheaper. W: Well, I tried both of them, and
Sonics user experience is much better than the vivas.

M: Really? Why do you think so?

W: Its operating system is a lot faster games ran smoothly, even with
many apps open.

M: Is smooth gameplay worth the extra 600 dollars?

W: That\'s not the only reason why the Sonic is better, life is short,
so I want to enjoy the best.

M: Okay, but supporting such a powerful operating system takes energy.
So how long does the Sonics battery last?

W: That\'s a good question, but I can just use a power bank to charge
the battery.

M: Well, what about size?The Sonic is huge, why do you need such a large
screen?

W: It\'s screen is much more comfortable for my eyes when I tried
reading on the viva, I had to focus really hard.

M: But don\'t, you think it\'s inconvenient to keep it in your pocket?

W: That might be true, but girls use purses. Besides, I want to do
something that reflects a modern lifestyle.

M: What do you mean?

W: I work in public relations, so I always need to give a good
impression, do you think the viva shows that I\'m not professional.

M: Maybe people will be impressed if you use a viva. It would show them
that you don\'t care what

they think.

W: Nice try, but appearances are important whether you like it or not.

M: Okay, if the Sonic can make you happy, let\'s buy it.

W: We can get you one, too, if you\'d like. That way you will see how
great they really are and

change your mind.

M: Come on, one is expensive enough. I\'ll definitely get a viva when I
need a new phone.

**Part 5**

**Vocabulary**

**Preparing for an Interview**

Research the company.

Before going to a job interview research the company. For example, you
can learn about its history products and mission. Researching the
company shows that you care about working there. Analyze the job
description.

In addition to researching a company, you should also analyze the job
description. This means

carefully studying its responsibilities and requirements. Understanding
at jobs requirements help you connect them to your own experience.

Review your resume.

Review your resume before you interview. Go over your specific
qualifications, that match the job description. Reviewing your resume
out to speak about your past experiences clearly.

Prepare responses.

During an interview, you will be asked questions about your experience
skills, strengths and weaknesses. Prepare responses for these questions.

Prepare questions.

At the end of an interview, the interviewer will usually ask if you have
any questions. Asking the right questions is as important as an
answering them. It shows that you have researched the company, and care
about working there.

**Resume Terms**

Resume.

A resume is a summary of your background skills and qualification. You
should send a company your resume if you\'re interested in a position.

Cover letter.

A cover letter is a letter that explains your interest in a job
position. You can send a cover letter with your resume when you apply
for a job.

Qualification.

Your qualifications are the accomplishments or skills that make you
qualified for a job. They can include work experience, educational
backgrounds or even personal project. In your cover letter show how your
qualifications meet a job requirements.

Requirement.

Requirements are the skills and experience necessary to do a job. They
can include job history, language skills, or computer skills. Make sure
you meet most of the jobs requirements before applying for it.

Reference.

A reference is someone who can talk to an employer about your work
experience. References can include a former employer, a teacher or even
a friend. You should choose someone, who knows you well as a reference.

**How To Behave**

Attitude.

Your attitude is the way you think and feel about something. An
interview your attitude can be as important as your skills and
experience. Having a positive attitude is more likely to help you get
the job.

Body language.

Your body language is how you use your body to communicate. Good body
language includes

making eye contact, smiling and sitting up straight. An interview good
body language can help you leave a positive impression.

Passion.

Your passion shows how strongly you feel about something. Sometimes an
employer hires someone for their passion as well as their experience.

Adequate.

Adequate is how you should behave in a certain situation. Good interview
adequate includes arriving on time and dressing well. If you\'re late
for an interview, your interviewer may think you aren\'t reliable.

**Describing Candidates**

Proactive.

To be proactive means to do something before you\'ve been asked to do
it. Proactive employees are good at handling issues before they become
problems. Being proactive helps to finish work ahead of schedule.

Organized.

To be organized means to arrange things in a clear and logical way.
Organized employees can manage assignments efficiently. If you want to
lead a team or projects, you need to be organized. Passionate.

To be passionate means you have strong feelings about something.
Passionate employees believe

in what they do. Employees who are passionate usually work hard.

Patient.

To be patent means to stay calm when dealing with a difficult problem or
person. Patient employs

can handle tough situations without getting upset.

Adaptable.

To be adaptable means to easily adjust to new conditions. Adaptable
employees keep working efficiently despite the big or sudden changes.

**Dialogue**

**A Recruitment Decision**

W1: What you think about Paul?

W2: Hmmm, I\'m not impressed, I don\'t think he\'s a good fit for my
team.

W1: But don\'t you think his experience could be valuable? He exceeded
his personal sales targets for three months in a row.

W2: I know, he knows how to sell things, but this position is for the
marketing department, not the

sales team. He did not explain how his sales experience relates to what
we are looking for. Honestly,

I don\'t think that he prepared enough.

W1: What do you mean? He was very comfortable, and confident talking
about his work experience. W2: I agree that he was good at talking about
himself. But he didn\'t know much about what our company does. And when
I asked him if he had any questions, he only asked about the salary.

W1: Yeah, that doesn\'t show much interest.

W2: The first candidate that we interviewed Andrew was better. He works
in marketing and his attitude was great.

W1: I agree, he asked a lot of questions about our company.

W2: Right, he was familiar with our marketing campaigns and our
competitors, too. I liked talking notes comparing each one.

W1: Even so, he doesn\'t have that much experience. Do you really think
he\'s more qualified than Paul?

W2: Looking only at their resumes, Paul is a stronger candidate. But I
wasn\'t impressed by how we acted in our interview. In my opinion,
Andrew has more potential than his resume suggests. He knows what we\'re
looking for and wants a challenge.

W1: I just worry that he may need some time to adjust.

W2: Yes, he has a lot to learn. But if we give him a chance, I think
he\'ll do a good job.

W1: Okay, I\'ll send him an email, and set up a meeting to discuss
salary and benefits.

W2: Great, I\'d like him to start as soon as possible.

## Unit 2

**Part 1**

**Vocabulary**

**How to Answer a Call**

Effective customer service calls are important for increasing customer
satisfaction. When customers have a positive experience, they\'re more
likely to become loyal customers.

Here are some steps to answer a customer service call successfully. When
answering a customer

call begin with a greeting and identify yourself.

Name your company or department and say who speaking. Then offer to help
the customer in a friendly tone to make a good first impression.

After finding out what the customer needs, you can ask for their order
information. This may include

the customer\'s name order number or account number.

It allows you to understand their problem more clearly, and provide more
efficient service.

Sometimes customers call to complain about a product or service.

Let the customer know that you understand their feelings and
experiences. Then explain how you\'re going to fix the problem.

In some situations, you may need to transfer a customer call to another
department. Remember to

tell the customer why they are being transferred.

Otherwise, they may think you don\'t want to handle their problem. It is
important to ensure that the customer is satisfied.

Before ending your car ask if there is anything else you can do to help.
Show them your willingness

to assist, and wish them a good day.

In conclusion, the key to an excellent customer service call is treating
customers in a polite and helpful way.

**How to behave a Call**

Respectful.

To be respectful means to show politeness or care for others. You can be
respectful in a business phone call by using polite language.

Punctual.

To be punctual means to do something on time. When you have a call
scheduled, you can set an alarm on your phone to notify you in advance.
If you call too early or too late, you run risk of making a negative
impression. Concise. To be concise means to provide information clearly
and briefly. People may get impatient if you talk for too long. To be
concise, you should focus on the main purpose of the call.

Positive.

To be positive means to try to improve the situation or offer help
rather than doing nothing. Using positive language is important when
answering customer questions. For example, instead of saying \"I don\'t
know\", you can say \"Let me find that out for you right now. \".

Explicit.

To be explicit means to say or explain something in a clear and direct
way. When making a request on the phone be explicit so the other person
knows exactly what you want. Informative. Giving

informative answers helps clarify problems. You can gather information
before making a business phone call.

**How to host a Call**

A conference call is a telephone call that involves three or more
people. It allows people in different locations to hold a meeting.

If you are hosting a conference call, begin by greeting everyone and
introducing yourself. Give the

name of your company, and your job title if necessary.

Then introduce the participants if they are not familiar with each
other. Next briefly tell everyone the purpose of the call.

Explain the topics you want to discuss and the goal you want to
accomplish. You can also improve

the efficiency by making a skin beforehand.

This in force planning the order in which each person is going to speak.
It also prevents participants from talking over each other.

During the call, you are responsible for overseeing the conversation and
making sure it goes

smoothly. If the conversation goes off topic, try to bring it back on
track.

At the end of the call, summarize the main points of the discussion.
Remember to list the tasks that need to be finished.

You may send this information to everyone after the call to remind them.
And don\'t forget to thank

everyone for their time.

**How to Schedule a Call**

Setting appointments over the phone is an important skill in the
workplace. Making an appointment

can be complicated if two people are very busy.

It\'s necessary to find the time that is convenient for both parties.
Tell the recipient wants the meeting

is about and who will attend.

Explain what you want to discuss, and what you want to accomplish. You
can also mention how long the appointment is expected to last.

Before you call, you should check your calendar. Suggest a possible
meeting time according to your

schedule. If you are calling a potential customer it\'s better to offer
more options.

If the other person isn\'t available at these times, you can let them
choose another time. It\'s good to

be flexible.

Be going to have the appointment at a time convenient for them. Before
ending the call, confirm all

the details of the appointment.

This includes the purpose, the time and the location of the appointment.
You may also offer extra information like directions and your contact
information.

**Dialogue**

**A Business Phone Call**

W1: Hello, thank you for calling grant manufacturing. This is Annie Lou
speaking. How can I help you? M: Hi, this is Peter Jones from J. hill.
Could I speak with your manager, Grace Wang, please?

W1: Sure. Let me put you through. . . . I am sorry, she\'s not available
right now. Can I take a

message?

M: Sure, there was a problem with this week\'s clothing shipment,you
sent us the wrong shoes.

W1: Oh. I\'m sorry to hear that. I\'ll have her call you back as soon as
she\'s available.

M: Thank you. Please do. It\'s quite urgent.

W1: Could I have your phone number, please?

M: Be any code for the US is 001, and my number is 489-783-9542.

W1: And how is your name spelled?

M: My first name is Peter, P-E-T-E-R, and my last name is Jones,
J-O-N-E-S.

W1: Okay, let me see if I have it right. So that\'s Peter Jones, and
your phone number is 001-489-783-9542. Is that correct?

M: Yes. Thanks a lot.

W1: You\'re very welcome.

M: Hello, this is Peter Jones speaking.

W2: Hi, Peter, this is Grace. I\'m sorry. I just miss your call.

M: Don\'t worry about it. And thanks for calling me back so quickly.
It\'s rather urgent.

W2: Any informed me that the wrong shoes were sent to you.

M: That\'s great. We ordered a shipment of Teccos, but we received
Keatons instead. We need Teccos as soon as possible for our Christmas
sale.

W2: Understood. If we send them tomorrow, they\'ll arrive on Wednesday
morning in your time. Is

that okay?

M: No. I\'m afraid that\'s too late we need them by Tuesday afternoon.

W2: I\'m sorry, but there are no more shipments going out today.

M: Okay, ship it tomorrow and use the express shipping.

W2: Yes, we will do everything to help you get the shoes by Tuesday
afternoon.

M: Thank you, Grace, but I don\'t expect this to happen again.

W2: No, it won\'t. Again, I am terribly sorry about this, thank you for
your understanding.

**Part 2**

**Vocabulary**

**Order Actions**

To take an order.

Businesses take orders to supply customers with what they need. These
days, companies often use digital systems to take orders online.

To process an order.

To process an order means to collect, pack and label the items in it. An
order is usually processed by a business is distribution center. After
being processed, the order will be shipped out.

To ship an order.

To ship an order means to send it to a customer. The time it takes for
an order to arrive, can depend on the shipping method.

To cancel an order.

Take cancel an order means to stop it from being delivered. An order
usually can be canceled before being shipped. If it takes too long to
process an order, the customer may choose to cancel it.

To track an order.

To track in order means to follow the progress of its delivery. An older
may sometimes be sent to the wrong place or even get lost. By tracking
and order, a customer can\'t find out where it is and when it will
arrive.

**Communication Actions**

To promise.

To promise something means to guarantee it will happen. Keeping your
comments is to people help their trust. If you fail to keep your
promises, people will not trust you.

To request.

To request something means to ask for it formally or politely. If you
need important data from your company, you may need to request it. Using
it without permission can get you in trouble.

To confirm.

To concern needs to make something certain or definite. Confirming
something is true helps avoid misunderstandings about it. When making an
order, you need to make sure every detail has been confirmed.

To clarify.

To clarify means to make something clear. Clarify a complex situation
helps people to understand it better. For example, if employees do not
understand certain task a manager can clarify it.

To inform.

To inform means you give information or knowledge to someone. Keeping
your co-workers informed is important for effective communication.

**A Supply Chain**

Retailer.

A retailer sells goods directly to consumers. Retailers allow consumers
to buy their products online or in stores. Examples of retailers include
supermarkets, department stores and bookstores.

Distributor.

A distributor works with manufacturers to sell goods to a network of
retailers. For example, a food distributor will buy goods from a
manufacturer and sell them to supermarkets. This helps the manufacturer,
the distribute their products and increase their sales.

Manufacturer.

A manufacturer produces goods usually for companies or distributors. For
example, a tire manufacturer could make tires for car factories or sell
them to a tire distributor. Manufacturer\'s allow businesses save money
by not running their own shelteris.

Carrier.

A carrier transports goods from one place to another. carriers allow
businesses to move a large number of goods quickly and safely. Retailers
usually contract carriers to deliver their shipments. Supplier.

A supplier provides products or services for a business. Suppliers allow
people to purchase items

important to running their business. For example, a restaurant buys its
ingredients from a food supplier.

**Elements of an Order**

The order number.

An order number is the number used a label in order. It\'s given to a
customer once an order has

been placed. Customers can track their orders by entering the order
number in the order management system.

The older quantity.

The order quantity is the number or amount of items being ordered. How
much and order costs to ship can depend on its quantity.

The shipping type.

Shipping time is the method shipments use for an order. How much
shipping costs depends on the shipping type. For example, overnight
shipping is much more expensive than regular shipping. Delivery date.

A delivery date is the date when the customer will receive the order. It
is based on the processing

time, and the shipping speed of an order. If you want to change your
delivery date, you may need to pay more money.

Cost of an order.

The cost of an order is the amount of money spent on it. Companies often
need to think about how to reduce the cost of their orders. For example,
a business may negotiate with a carrier to reduce their shipping rate.

**Dialogue**

**Talking an Order**

W: Hi, this is Joan Harris from Olsson chair design, how can I help you
today?

M: I\'d like to place an order for one of your chairs.

W: Certainly. Have you ordered from us before?

M: I have, a year ago.

W: Okay, great. So which model of chair are you interested in ordering?

M: The comfort plus model.

W: OK, and how many would you like to order?

M: 65 chairs, do you have that many available?

W: It won\'t be a problem. The comfort plus is one of our most popular
models. We always keep a large supply in our warehouse.

M: Great. Could I get an estimate before I place the order?

W: Certainly, I can send you one through email before the end of the
day.

M: Just to confirm, packaging and shipping costs are included in the
estimate, right?

W: The estimate includes the cost of the order, plus the costs for
packaging and shipping and insurance.

W: Okay. After you said it, can you also call me to

confirm? M: All right, I will call you as soon as I send the

estimate. W: Great. Thanks so much for your help, John.

M: You\'re welcome.

W: Hi, this is John Harris from all sin chair design.

M: Hi, John.

W: I\'m calling to confirm the estimate for your order, it\'s going to
be 3500, and 75 dollars if you want shipping insurance that will be an
additional 35 dollars.

M: Is shipping insurance really necessary?

W: I think so. You may lose a lot of money if your order gets damaged or
lost, but if you get insurance, you can get your money back when there
are any problems.

M: Okay. I\'ll pay for the insurance.

W: So then your total cost will be 3610 dollars.

M: What\'s your preferred method of payment?

W: I\'ll do a bank transfer. I already have your account information
from the last time we ordered from you.

M: Great once we received your payment, your order should ship within 48
hours. It will probably

arrive at your office in about seven business days.

W: Great. Thanks so much, goodbye.

M: You\'re welcome bye.

**Part 3**

**Vocabulary**

**How to Written an Email**

Emails or important form of communication in the business world. Here
are several guidelines to ensure your emails are professional. Make sure
your email subject is clear and informative.

The subject line can determine whether your email will be opened or not.
So it should convey the

most important information in the email. Writing the body of your email
keep it brief. Try not to discuss several subjects in one email. If you
have to clearly mention them in the subject line or the first line of
your email.

Before sending an email it\'s a good idea to proofread it. Read your
email aloud to check for spelling

and grammar mistakes. And make sure that no information is repeated or
left out.

Sometimes you may need to attach files to an email. Let the recipients
know which documents are attached and why. this way they can understand
the purpose of the files and won\'t forget to check them.

Before sending the email, make sure the email addresses are written
correctly. You can also CC

additional people to know about the email. Be CC is a way to send emails
to others without letting them know who else is getting the email.

**Email Etiquette**

The body of an email is the main part of it. When you write business
emails, make sure the body is formal and professional. This will give
the recipient a good impression of you and your company. Always pure
email with a greeting.

If your relationship with the recipient is formal, use "Dear" followed
by their title and last name. If you

are on a first name basis with the recipient, you may simply say \" Hi.
\" and their first name.

Introduce yourself in the first paragraph if necessary. State the
purpose of the email clearly before moving into the main text. To make
the email more logical, and easier to understand, try to use short
paragraphs separated by line breaks.

Before ending your email politely explain what you would like the
recipient to do. If you are expecting

a response. You may use phrases like \"I look forward to hearing from
you. \" If not, you may simply inform the recipient that your services
are available.

The last step is to include inappropriate clothing with your name. You
can close the email with sign

offs such as sincere sincerely or best regards. Keeping these guidelines
in mind will ensure that your emails are polite and appropriate.

**Organizing Your Email**

Inbox.

An inbox, a folder where new e mail messages are kept. To organize your
Inbox, you can create folders for different emails. Offer wise, you may
lose track of your emails.

Started email. Start emails are emails that have blocked as important.
Starring emails allows you to

find him easily. It also helps you keep track of them.

Draft.

A draft is an email that has not been completed. As you compose an email
most email services will save it automatically as a draft. This prevent
you from losing the email accidentally.

Spam. Spam is unwanted emails sent to a large number of people. They are
often sent by

businesses or spammers to advertise or spread malware. So be careful
when opening spam emails. Trash.

When you delete an email, it would be moved to the trash. In general,
emails remain in the trash for

30 days. So it is possible to recover a recently deleted email, if you
still need it.

Outbox.

And out boxes where emails are stored before you send them. Sometimes an
email will be stuck in the outbox and won\'t send. The most common cause
is that the attachment is too large to send.

**An Email Account**

Email address.

And email address is on name you use for sending and receiving emails.
Write business emails, it\'s better to use a professional email address.
It should be your name registered with your company\'s domain.

Email account.

In order to have any email address, you need to register an email
accounts first. People are in register, separate email accounts for work
and personal use. If you want your account to be safe, you should create
a strong the password.

Username.

Username refers to the part of an email address that comes before the at
sign. When registering an email account, you need to create a user name
to identify yourself.

Password.

Your password is a cold dews to access your e mail account. A strong
password prevents your email account from being accessed by others.
It\'s better not include personal information in your password, such as
your birthday.

To log in

To sign out. too large into your email means to open it by entering your
user name and password. Once you log in you can check your email by
opening your in box. If you\'re using a public or shared computer. Make
sure to sign out before leaving.

**Dialogue**

**Writing a Business Email**

M: Hi, Emily, I just drafted an email to Mr. Roberts. Do you have time
to take a look?

W: Sure, Bill. The subject isn\'t informative enough. You just wrote
about meeting on next Tuesday. M: Really? The email is about a meeting,
right?

W: Yes. But your subject should include the most important information
in the email. I would write

\"Meeting invite for October 4th: Syllabus design for business
English\".

M: Yeah, that\'s better. So we need to include the meeting theme and
date.

W: Yes. But be sure to make it short. Here you begin with dear Mr.
Roberts. That\'s good. It\'s better to use the recipient\'s last name if
you don\'t know them very well.

M: Right. When I send e-mail to you, I usually start with \"Hi Emily\"
since we\'re quite close.

W: Why is the first paragraph so long?

M: I heard you have a cold, so I asked how he was feeling. I also
suggested he get some rest.

W: Beginning and email with something personal can be good. But too much
unnecessary information can be distracting.

M: Okay, then I\'ll just write \"I hope you\'re feeling better\".

W: That\'s good. But I also noticed that you use the word \"must\" to
make requests. It\'s more polite to frame them as questions and use
\"could\".

M: Okay, I can say why. Making the request in a commanding way might
make the recipient

uncomfortable.

W: Yes. Remember the recipient can\'t hear or see you. You need to show
respect through your words.

M: Yeah, especially when it involves cooperation between departments.
How\'s the conclusion of my

email?

W: You end with \"Cheers\" followed by your name. That\'s a bit informal
for a sign off. Business emails, it\'s better to use \"Best\" or
\"Sincerely\".

M: Okay, got it, I\'m gonna make the changes and send it immediately.

W: Don\'t forget to proofread your email before sending it. You don\'t
want to have any grammar or spelling mistakes.

M: Of course. Thank you so much.

**Part 4**

**Vocabulary**

**Types of Department**

HR.

The HR department handles employee issues and problems. It\'s
responsible for recruiting hiring and training employees. If you are a
serious problem with another employee, the HR department can usually
help you solve it.

R&D.

R&D refers to research and development. The R&D department keeps a
company\'s products innovative and competitive. It\'s responsible for
developing new products, and services and improving existing ones. The
R&D department, usually consists of engineers and scientists.

Marketing.

The marketing department promotes a company\'s products or services.
It\'s responsible for during market research to understand customer
needs. The goal of the marketing department is to get people interested
in a product or service.

Sales.

The sales department is responsible for selling products or services. It
may sell to other businesses

or individual customers depending on the products. The goal of the sales
department is to get people to buy a product or service.

Accounting.

The accounting department keeps track of how a company\'s money is spent
and received. Is responsible for reporting and recording a company\'s
cash flow and managing its payroll. If there\'s an issue with your
paycheck, you can talk to the accounting department.

Customer service.

The customer service department interacts with the company\'s customers.
It\'s responsible for handling customer issues and complaints. If you
have a problem with a product, you can contact customer service.

**Executive Roles**

CEO.

CEO stands for chief executive officer. A CEO is the highest ranking
executive in a company. A CEO is responsible for setting the company\'s
direction and business goals.

COO.

COO means chief operating officer. A COO is often the second highest
ranking executives in a company. In large companies, a COO is in charge
of managing day to day operations for the CEO. Their rule usually
depends on the CEO with management style.

CFO.

CFO stands for chief financial officer. A CFO manages a company\'s
financial activities. A CFO is responsible for deciding how a company
spends its money and uses its resources. They may also work with the CEO
to set a company\'s business goals.

CPO.

CPO means chief product officer. A CPO makes decisions about all product
related matters. A CPO is in charge of product innovation, production
and management.

CTO.

CTO means chief technology officer. A CTO is responsible for the
management of a company\'s research and development. They focus on
scientific and technological issues within a company. CTOs sent
technical strategies for a company to ensure its success.

**Organizational Actions 1**

To resolve.

To resolve a problem means to find a solution to it. If a problem arises
it\'s important to resolve it. For example, HR to resolve the conflict
between employees.

To follow up.

To follow up means to check in with someone to see how something is
going. Managers can follow up with their employees to make sure their
work is done properly.

To anticipate.

To anticipate means to expect something, and prepare for it before it
happens. You need to

anticipate problems when developing a business strategy. Problems can be
resolved quickly, and effectively when they are anticipated. Being able
to anticipate problems is very important when developing a business
strategy.

To demonstrate.

To demonstrate means to show how to do something. Demonstrating how
something works is an effective way to train employees.

To delegate.

The delegate means together responsibility to someone in a lower
position than yourself. Tasks are often delegated to employees based on
their experience, knowledge and skills. A successful manager knows how
to delegate tasks to the right people.

**Organizational Actions 2**

To compromise.

To compromise means to reach an agreement by accepting less than what
you want. In a company, different departments may need to compromise in
order to finish a project on time.

To collaborate.

To collaborate means to work with other people towards the same goal.
Different departments need to collaborate with each other on a big
project. Good collaboration involves compromise and effective
communication.

To supervise.

To supervise means to make sure something is being done properly.
Managers supervise projects to keep them on schedule. Without someone to
supervise the project, it may become disorganized.

To review.

To review means to carefully examine the quality of something. Companies
review their business goals each year to see if they need to be changed
or improved. Managers review their employees work to evaluate their
performance.

To assign.

To assign something means to give it to a specific person or a
department. When assigning tasks to employees, it\'s important for
managers to know their strengths and weaknesses.

**Dialogue**

**Marketing the ROboOne**

M: Hey, May. I\'m Jack from the marketing department.

W: Hey, Jack, what can I help you with?

M: The R&D team will have a RoboOne presentation next week, right?

W: Yeah, it\'s for the sales and marketing managers.

M: Could I invite Michael one of my marketing associates? He's been
writing some promotional material about the RoboOne\'s new features.
Giving him some firsthand experience could help us work. W: Sure, just
remember, no phones. The RobotOne hasn\'t been made public yet. If he
takes a picture or video, I\'ll get in trouble with the legal
department.

M: Don\'t worry, I know the rules.

W: Speaking of the RoboOne, how\'s your promotional campaign going?
You\'ve been collaborating with the sales team, right?

M: It hasn\'t been going well, we had put together a great plan to
target a younger audience, but the

CFO wouldn\'t approve the budget.

W: Why not?

M: He said, bringing in new customers is too expensive. He wants to
focus on our current customers. So we redesigned the plan, and most of
the budget went to the sales team.

W: We had the same problem, and we are developing the RoboOne. We wanted
to add more

features, but the CFO thought they were too expensive.

M: So what happened?

W: Well, after some long talks, we compromised on the budget.

M: That\'s what happened to us. We had to plan a marketing strategy with
limited money.

W: Well, it may seem difficult now, but working with a limited budget
forced us to focus on what was really important.

M: Really, you make it sound like a good thing.

W: Yeah, the finance department also gave a lot of good advice on how to
cut some of the costs.

M: Okay. Maybe this is actually a good thing, I\'ll focus on the best
way to use our resources.

W: I\'m sure you\'ll do a good job.

M: Thanks,May. I\'m looking forward to having a look at the finished
RoboOne.

W: Okay, Jack, talk to you then.

**Part 5**

**Vocabulary**

**Elements of a Workflow**

Workflow.

A workflow is a process for how work is done from its beginning to its
completion. It allows a team to coordinate different parts of a task or
assignment. Without a good workflow, a team may become disorganized or
unproductive.

Framework.

A framework is a system of rules or ideas that is used to organize a
company. It outlines company policies and management structure.

Process.

A process a series of stages for doing something. It shows how and in
what order something should

be done. A good process makes a workflow as efficient and productive as
possible.

Progress.

Progress is the movement toward a goal. It shows how much of something
has been completed. If your project isn\'t so lot of progress, you may
need to change how you work.

Procedure.

A procedure is establish way of doing something. It can be a single step
or part of a larger process. Without a proper procedures of how to do
work, people become confused.

**Workflow Actions**

To approve.

To approve something means you accept or agree to it. A budget usually
needs to be approved by

the CEO and CFO. A budget needs to be approved before you can spend the
money.

To implement.

To implement something means to put it into action. You can implement
rule to prevent a problem. If

a workflow is confusing, you will need to implement changes.

To accomplish.

To accomplish something means to complete it successfully. It may
require cooperation between teams to accomplish a project. Without a
clear deadline, it may be hard to accomplish the project on time.

To monitor.

To monitor something means to track its progress. Monitoring a project
ensures it is done well and on time. Managers are usually responsible
for monitoring workflow within their departments.

To reject.

To reject something means to refuse to accept it. If a budget is too
high, the CFO may rejected. A budget may be rejected many times before
get proved.

**Workflow Structure**

A calendar.

A calendar shows the days, weeks and months of the year. Using a
calendar to arrange deadlines, and meetings can help you manage your
workload better.

A guideline.

A guideline is a general rule that directs how work should be done. It
gives work or structure it helps employees work more consistently.
Without guidelines won't work can be much different from another.
Workload.

A workload is the amount of work needed to be done. Your workload may
change depending on your

job position. A large project with a tight deadline often leads to a
heavy workload.

Deadline.

A deadline is the date or time when something needs to be finished.
Employees usually work towards weekly or monthly deadlines, depending on
the work. If you can\'t finish your work on time, you may need to extend
the deadline.

Timeframe.

A timeframe is the amount of time to do something before a deadline.
Employees manage and organize their work within a timeframe. If you have
a tired timeframe, you will need to work hard to meet a deadline.

**Workflow Benefits**

Productive.

To be productive needs to be able to do lots of work well. Productive
employees are good at managing their time and tasks.

Accountable.

To be accountable means to be responsible for the result of something.
If you are accountable for something, you are responsible for whether
it\'s good or bad. A workflow makes employees accountable for specific
tasks on a team.

Sustainable.

Can be sustainable means to be maintained at a certain level or
standard. A sustainable procedure can be managed effectively over a long
period of time. A procedure is not sustainable, if people are not all to
follow it.

Structured.

To be structured means to be put together in an organized way. A
workflow is structured to make

sure work is regularly completed within the time frame. If a workflow
isn\'t structured it will be hard to follow.

Logical.

Something that is larger girl has been designed in a way that makes
sense. A workflow should be arranged in a logical way, so it\'s easy to
follow.

**Dialogue**

**A Messy Workflow**

M: Hey, Kim. I\'m looking over our schedules. It seems you fall behind
on your deadlines.

W: No way, I\'ve reached my deadlines every week this month.

M: Well, you\'ve only done the first draft, you need to finish the
articles last week.

W: What are we supposed to wait for Tim to check them?

M: No, he said we should finish them by ourselves.

W: But, Tim is our manager, after we finish a draft, it should be
reviewed by him. If it\'s okay, if he then sends it to the photo editor
to add images, then he should finalize it.

M: I know, but Tim changed the process last week. Maybe you weren\'t
around when he said it, Tim

is getting rid of the first review. We should finish drafts by
ourselves.

W: What? The world flows has changed so many times around here, it\'s
hard to remember what I\'m supposed to do.

M: I know, I\'m really sorry for not following up with you earlier, let
me know if you need any help

checking them.

W: Thanks. So when should we send these articles to the photo editor?

M: Tim didn\'t say what to do about adding photos. Maybe we can send
them in after you finalize your articles.

W: I think Tim should first clarified that process more. We shouldn\'t
waste any more time.

M: Right. When Tim gets back, let\'s confirm what to do with the photos.
But right now, please finalise your drafts as soon as possible.

W: Okay. But in the future, we really need to have a better workflow. It
keeps changing and it\'s hurting the quality of our work. Without a
regular workflow it\'s, hard to coordinate the work among our team.

M: You\'re right, but don\'t worry about that for now, as long as you
finish these drugs quickly on time.

Everyone will be happy.
