# 商务英语 Level 5
## Unit 1 Part 1

Vocabulary

*V/1 Time Management Tips*

Do you often struggle to finish your work on time? Improving your time
management skills can help

you do more in less time. Here are some tips for managing your time
effectively.

**Set goals**

The first step towards managing your time effectively is to set clear
goals for what you want to accomplish. These goals should be organized
by how urgent and important they are. Once they have been ordered, you
will know what you need to do first

**Set time blocks**

Time blocking arranges your day into periods of time based on different
tasks. It shows you how

much time you have, and what you should spend it on.

**Take breaks**

A break is a short rest taken from work. After you have been working for
a long time, you should

take a break. Otherwise, you may get tired and have trouble focusing on
your work.

**Delegate your work**

If you are a manager, knowing how to delegate can help save your time.
Delegating work frees up

your time and allows you to concentrate on what\'s most important. If
someone on your team can do

a task, you should consider delegating it to them.

(For difficult assignments, arrange a long block of time when you won't
be interrupted. )

*V/2 Common Mistakes*

Here are some factors that can make it difficult to manage your time.

**Stress**

Stress can cause people to become anxious. Instead of focusing on their
work, they may worry

about what could happen if they fail. As a result, they may get
distracted and rush through their

work, which leads to mistakes.

**Procrastination**

Procrastination is the act of putting off doing something until a later
time. People may procrastinate because they think their work is
unpleasant or boring. But if you have waited too long to do your work,
you may get stressed and rush through it.

(Employees may be motivated by a little stress, but too much stress can
be distracting. Worrying

about what could go wrong if a project fails can cause someone a lot of
stress. He had a week to

finish his project, but he procrastinated until the last day. Her work
has greatly improved since she learned to stop procrastinating.)

**Multitasking**

To multitask means to work on more than one thing at the same time.
Multitasking causes you to

divide your attention between tasks, rather than focus on each one. As a
result, it may take you

longer to finish individual tasks.

**Perfectionism**


Perfectionism means to want everything to be as good as possible. It can
cause people to focus on

minor details and ignore more urgent or important work.

(While multitasking may seem efficient, it actually means your work
takes longer to complete. By

splitting your attention between tasks, you\'ll probably make mistakes
because you aren\'t focusing

You need to stop multitasking and focus on completing one thing at a
time.

Perfectionists have high standards but sometimes they can be
unrealistic. She has gotten frustrated

with his perfectionism because he spends too much time on unimportant
details. Perfectionism can

cause people to confuse details their priorities and waste time on minor
details. Perfectionists have

high standards, but sometimes they can be unrealistic.)

*V/3 Time Management Terms*

**Interruption**

An interruption is something that stops work from being done. Frequent
interruptions prevent you

from staying focused.

**Priority**

A priority is a task that should be completed before others. If a task
is important and needs to be

finished as soon as possible, it is a high priority.

(He said he was going to work from home, so he could finish his work
without interruptions. She had

been concentrating on her work when she was interrupted by a colleague.
He had two weeks until

the report was due, so he didn\'t treat it as a priority. He has put off
his team meeting since the

upcoming meeting with his clients is a higher priority.)

**Reminder**

A reminder is a message that helps you remember to do something. If you
have something

important to do, you should leave a reminder so you don\'t forget about
it.

**to-do list**

A to-do list is a list of tasks that need to be completed. Making a
to-do list of your work helps you set priorities and organize your time.

(He left a reminder on his desk so he would remember to call his client
after lunch. His assistant left

a reminder that he had to deliver a speech at the conference. She had
noticed the reminder on her

desk before she left the office. Before she goes to bed, she adds her
work for the next day on her to-

do list. His to-do list is an unstructured mess since he never organizes
it.)

*V/4 Related Actions*

**to schedule**

To schedule something means to plan when and where it will happen.
Scheduling your work makes

it easier to manage your time.

**to focus**

To focus on something means to concentrate on it. When you focus on your
work, you are less likely

to make mistakes. If you get distracted, you lose focus.

(He scheduled the delivery to the warehouse for tomorrow at three. He
scheduled a meeting for

tomorrow morning and invited the whole team. The appointment with their
client has been scheduled

for Friday afternoon. If you want to do a good job, you should ignore
distractions and focus on your

work. He can\'t focus on his work when the office is noisy.)

**to simplify.**


To simplify something means to make it less complex and easier to do or
understand. If a process is

too complicated, it should be simplified so people can understand it.

**to implement**

To implement means to put something into action. After a schedule has
been created, it should be implemented.

(After the workflow had been simplified, it became easier to follow. Our
presentation was

complicated so we decided to simplify it. The routine has been recently
implemented, so it may take

a while to get used to it. After the new rule had been implemented, it
took longer for employees to

complete their work.)

Dialogue\--Managing Her Time

A: So, how have you been? It's been such a long time since we last
caught up.

B: Yeah, I think it's been over a year. Since giving birth to my son
Edward, I've found it difficult to manage my time at work and haven't
been out socializing much.

A: don't worry. I understand how you feel. I felt the same when I went
back to work after having my daughter Isabella. Back then, I used to
miss a lot of deadlines at work.

B: Yes, I never used to miss deadlines, but now I miss them all the
time. I don't like missing them,

but I can't work exactly late as I have to take care of Edward. How did
you cope with work after

Isabella was born?

A: Well. It's not as hard as it seems. One thing that helped me was
keeping a schedule and setting

time blocks for specific tasks.

B: That's a great idea. But what happens if you need to do some urgent
work that was not

scheduled?

A: Just remember to be flexible. It's important to be able to change
your plans if circumstances

change. I also try to avoid as many distractions as possible at work. I
found this allows me to focus

on the thing that is important.

B: You're right. Putting my phone on silent would definitely help me
concentrate. This is a great

advises. I'm looking forward to getting back to my old self.

A: It won't be exactly the same as before.

B: what do you mean?

A: You have a baby now, so you probably won't spend as much time at work
as before. Just

concentrate on doing as much as possible in the time you have rather
than trying to do everything.

B: Thanks. Helen you always make me feel better.

A: that's what friends for. Just don't leave a year until we see each
other next time.

(It has been such a long time since they last caught up. It\'s been such
a long time since we last

caught up. Since she gave birth to her son, she hasn\'t had much time to
socialize. Since giving birth

to my son Edward, I\'ve found it difficult to manage my time at work and
haven\'t been out socializing much.

I never used to miss deadlines, but now I miss them all the time. She
schedules time in the morning

to work on them.

It\'s important to be flexible if circumstances change. I also try to
avoid as many distractions as

possible at work.

Just concentrate on doing as much as possible in the time you have
rather than trying to do

everything. It won\'t be exactly the same as before.)


### Part2

Vocabulary

*V/1 How to Set Priorities*

When everything you have to do seems important, figuring out where to
begin can be difficult. Here

are some suggestions to help you evaluate and prioritize your work.

**List your tasks**

Before you prioritize your work, make a list of your tasks for the day
or week. This lets you see what

you need to do and determine your priorities. And it helps you keep
track of your work.

**Determine their urgency**

Urgent tasks are tasks that must be done soon or even immediately. If
something is due by the end

of the day, it is likely to be urgent. But if you have a week to finish
it, it will be a lower priority.

**Determine their importance**

Important tasks are valuable activities that will greatly influence your
future. You should schedule

time for important tasks every day, especially when you feel most
productive. Important tasks

usually take a longer time to complete than urgent tasks. Failing to
complete important tasks could prevent you from reaching your long-term
goals.

**Estimate time needed.**

Estimate how long it will take to complete each task. Splitting up a
large assignment into smaller

tasks can make it easier to estimate. If you estimate that something
will take a long time to

complete, you should start it soon. Otherwise you may not have enough
time.

(When a priority list is urgent, it should be handled as soon as
possible. When you need to work on several important tasks, using a
to-do list can make you feel less overwhelmed. If you do not list what
you need to do, you may forget an important task or fail to prioritize
effectively. After you have listed the work you need to do, you can
determine whether it is a high priority. The closer the deadline gets,
the more urgent a project becomes.

Even if a long report isn\'t urgent, it may still be an important
priority because it could greatly

influence your future. He had estimated that this project would take
more than a month to finish, so

he started two months before the deadline. Before you prioritize your
work, you should list all the

work you need to do.)

*V/2 Mismanaging Priorities*

**to underestimate**

To underestimate something means to think it is smaller or less
important than it actually is. If you underestimate a task, you think it
is easier than it actually is. When people underestimate the difficulty
of a project, they may schedule less time for it.

**to overestimate**

To overestimate something means to think it is bigger or more important
than it actually is. If you overestimate the importance of a task, you
assume the task is more important than it actually is.

**to ignore**

If you ignore something, you pretend that it doesn\'t exist. To focus on
your work, you should ignore distractions, such as social media and text
messages.

**to delay**

To delay means to put off something until a later time. An employee may
delay doing certain tasks because they do not think they\'re urgent.
Important tasks shouldn\'t be delayed too much, or else you may fall
behind schedule.


**to rush**

To rush means to do something in a hurry without thinking about it
carefully. Employees may rush through their work when they are behind
schedule. Rushing through assignments may hurt the quality of your work.

(When people overestimate the difficulty of a project, they expect to
spend more time and effort on it

than they actually will. When you are really busy, ignoring all incoming
phone calls can help you concentrate on your work. She had
underestimated the amount of time needed for this project, so it took
her longer to finish it than expected. We overestimated difficulty of
the project and scheduled more time than necessary for it. I had to
delay this phone call in order to finish my financial report on time.
The assignment was poorly written because it had been done in a rush.)

*V/3 Describing Goals*

**Specific**

To be specific means to be precise and clear. A specific goal clearly
defines what you want to accomplish. If something is specific, it is not
general or vague.

**Achievable**

If something is achievable, it can be reached on accomplished. For a
goal to be achievable, you

need to have the resources to complete it.

**Quantitative**

If something is quantitative, it can be measured by objective standards
or metrics. A quantitative

goal may be measured by statistics, data, or percentages.

**Qualitative**

A qualitative goal is measured subjectively and indirectly. \"Improving
customer satisfaction\" is an example of a qualitative goal. You can
turn a qualitative goal into a quantitative goal by using metrics such
as data or percentages.

(If a goal is specific, it has a clearly defined objective. Our manager
believed these goals were achievable, but we failed to reach any of
them.

A qualitative goal is subjective and can be measured indirectly. They
conducted a quantitative

analysis to see how many users visited their site last quarter.)

*V/4 Related Actions*

**To allocate**

To allocate means to divide and distribute something, like time or
money. When you allocate a

budget, you distribute it across different projects or activities.

**to evaluate**

To evaluate means to assess the value of something. A to-do list is a
great tool to evaluate what you need to do and manage your priorities.

**to extend**

To extend something means to make it longer. If an employee can\'t reach
a deadline, they may ask

their manager to extend it.

**to update**

When you update something, you change it to include recent information.
Once a task has been completed, update your to-do list by crossing the
task out.

(Evaluating your priorities can help you implement a timeline to achieve
your goals.The new annual budget indicates how funds will be allocated
to different departments. You can evaluate your time management skills
by determining how effectively you divide your time between different
activities.


To update means to change something by including the most recent
information. The meeting was supposed to last for thirty minutes, but it
was extended to an hour. When it\'s impossible to extend a deadline,
employees may be forced to work overtime in order to finish everything
on time. After examining his team\'s schedule, he decided to extend the
deadline for one week. A to-do list that is not regularly updated is not
effective for time management. To keep track of the progress of a
project, you need to regularly update the project schedule. )

Dialogue\--Setting Priorities

W: Looks like it's going to be another late night for me.

M: Why?

W: Well, it's already 6 o'clock and I'm only halfway through writing
this financial report. I think it's

going to take me another 3 hours to finished it.

M: What? I finished my part an hour ago.

W: Wow, really? I thought we were allocated a similar amount of work.
What's your secret?

M: 8 cups of coffee a day.

W: Be serious, how did you finish the report so fast?

M: I just prioritize my workload.

W: What do you mean?

M: well, When I found out that the report had to be finished today, I
made it my top priority.

Originally I have planned to make some calls, but I rescheduled them to
Friday because they weren\'t

urgent.

W: that's good idea. I had two client's calls today two couples of hour.
I could have spent more time

on report if I did not have to made them.

M: exactly. They weren't high priorities. Secondly, I scheduled the most
important tasks in the

morning because it\'s usually the most quiet time in the office. Also
it's when I am most productive.

W: Interesting. I never thought of that before. When the office gets
busy it can become very

distracting and hard to focus on work. But how do you decide which task
is the most important?

M: It's pretty simple. At the end of every day, I spend 10 minutes
writing down all of the tasks that I

need to complete the following day. Then I go through the list and rank
them in order of importance.

W: Wow, no wonder you are so efficient max. Thanks for all great tips.

M: Don't mention it. Don't worry about the report either. I'll help you
to finish it tonight.

W: Really? You're going to help me finish it?

M: yes, on one condition.

W: what's that?

M: You order in some pizza for us to eat while we finish.

W: Deal.

(I thought we were allocated a similar amount of work. He finished his
work so quickly because he prioritized his workload. When I found out
that the report had to be finished today, I made it my top priority He
moved his calls to Friday because they weren\'t urgent. He had
originally planned to make some calls, but he rescheduled them because
they weren\'t urgent.

I scheduled the most important tasks to be completed in the morning
because it\'s usually the most quiet time in the office. He\'s most
productive when it\'s quiet in the office.

Then I go through the list and rank them in order of importance. He
lists what he needs to do in order of importance at the end of the day.
You order in some pizza for us to eat while we finish. If he helps her
finish the report, she needs to order some pizza. He\'ll help her finish
her report tonight. She\'s only halfway through writing the report.)


### Part3

Vocabulary

*V/1 Balancing Work and Life I*

**to integrate**

To integrate something means to make it part of a whole. In order to
have enough time for yourself

during the week, you will need to integrate personal time into your
schedule.

**to balance**

To balance means to make different things equal in value or importance.
If a team\'s workload is balanced, everyone will do a similar amount of
work.

**to prioritize**

To prioritize tasks means to rank them in order of their importance. By
prioritizing your work, you\'ll

know what needs to be completed first.

**to modify**

To modify something means to make minor changes to improve it. After a
workflow has been

created, it may be modified to improve its efficiency.

(Once a small company has been acquired, its workforce may be integrated
into the company that

bought it. If feedback only focuses on what an employee has done wrong,
it is not balanced. If he

doesn\'t balance his work and personal life, he may burn out.

Once something has been prioritized, it becomes a priority. By modifying
our workflow, it can be improved without changing its main structure. He
modified his schedule to spend more time doing things that he liked.)

*V/2 Negative Factors*

When employees work long hours and have no time to relax, they may lose
morale. But low morale

may be caused by other factors than stress. Here are some reasons why
employees may become unmotivated at work.

**feeling undervalued**

If someone feels undervalued, they feel that they are not valued by
others. When an employee has worked hard, but thinks that their efforts
have been ignored, they may feel undervalued. It can be difficult to
motivate employees who feel that the work they do doesn\'t matter.

**conflicting values**

Values are ideas that people believe are important, such as honesty.
When an employee\'s values

are not the same as their company\'s or job\'s, conflict can occur. If
someone values honesty, they

may feel uncomfortable if they need to exaggerate the truth.

**task ambiguity**

Task ambiguity refers to a lack of understanding about how your job
should be done. If a manager

often gives her team incomplete directions, It will likely lead to
ambiguity. Unless they know what\'s expected of them, employees may feel
they can\'t do their jobs well.

**lack of career path**

Career path refers to opportunities for advancement within a company.
New skills and

responsibilities can encourage employees to stay motivated. If employees
aren\'t given a chance to advance in their jobs, they will get tired of
doing the same work every day.

(They may start to feel that their effort doesn\'t matter. When an
employee\'s values are not the same

as their company\'s, they may experience a conflict in values. If an
employee has been given

incomplete directions about how to do something, they won\'t know
what\'s expected of them.)


*V/3 Balancing Work and Life II*

**to overwhelm**

When someone has been overwhelmed, they have been given too much to do.
It can be difficult balancing work and personal time when you constantly
feel overwhelmed by your job.

**to distract**

When someone has been distracted, their attention has been drawn away
from something.

Removing unnecessary distractions is key to managing your time well.

**to demoralize**

To be demoralized means to have your motivation or confidence weakened.
Once an employee has become demoralized, their performance is likely to
decline.

**to restrict**

To restrict means to put limits on something. He tries to restrict his
use of work email after he leaves

the office.

(Even though she had been given a lot of time to finish the report, she
procrastinated until she was overwhelmed. He prefers to work in another
room since he often gets distracted when his co- workers start talking.
If you don\'t take breaks when you start to feel overwhelmed, you may
get sick. If someone is demoralized, they may become frustrated or even
depressed. To achieve a healthy work-life balance, you should set
restrictions on the time you spend working. Pushing your team to work
overtime may boost productivity in the short term, but ultimately they
will become demoralized.)

*V/4 Main Benefits*

Work-life balance can benefit a company as much as its employees. Here
are some ways in which a satisfied workforce can help its employer.

**reduced turnover**

Turnover refers to the rate at which employees leave and are replaced at
a company. When

employees are happy at work, they are unlikely to leave, so turnover
will be low. The higher the company\'s turnover rate, the more new
employees it will need to train, which can be expensive and time
consuming.

**word-of-mouth referrals**

Employees who like where they work are likely to refer people to open
positions within their

company. Word-of-mouth referrals can lower the costs spent on
recruitment agencies to hire

employees.

**Reduced Stress and Absences**

When employees have been overworked, they often become stressed. Over
time, stress can cause employees to burn out or get sick, which
decreases productivity. By supporting work-life balance, a company can
reduce stress and absences due to illness or fatigue.

**Positive Brand Reputation**

People want to work for companies that treat them well. A business that
has a reputation for work-

life balance will likely be attractive to top talent. But a business
that is known for having a poor work culture could have trouble hiring
talented employees. An investment in employees\' well-being is an
investment in company\'s future. Focusing on work-life balance can
reduce a company\'s costs, improve its reputation, and increase its
productivity.

(A low turnover reduces the resources a company spends on training
employees. Employees are

likely to burn out when they have been working for too long.)


Dialogue\--Seeking Advice

W: Hey, Mark, you look stressed out recently, how's life.

M: Hi. Sharon. I\'m finding it hard to balance work and life. I feel
like I\'m always working late with no

time for anything but the job. But you always seem to have time for your
personal life. What's your secret?

W: There's no secret, really. It's about knowing what you NEED to do,
and arranging around what

you'd LIKE to do. For example, if I have dinner plans one night, I will
get into work earlier to meet my deadlines ahead of schedule.

M: But I think that is hard. Even if I have done all my work for the
day, I will probably be hit with a

new assignment at 5 o\'clock.

W: Well, sometimes working late is unavoidable, but you also need to set
boundaries. Working so

late every day isn\'t healthy. Haven't you heard of "the power of no"?

M: well, No. What does it mean?

W: It means that you shouldn't be afraid to turn down something when you
have too much work.

You're allowed to say, "I can't finish this by today. Can I get it to
you tomorrow?"

M: If I do that, won't people be upset?

W: As long as you're reliable, they'll be fine. In my experience, doing
a good job is better than doing

a rushed job. But people won\'t give you more time to do your job unless
you ask for it.

M: that's good to know. I guess because I am still a new yet I didn't
know I can do it.

W: yeah. Do your work well, but also try to have fun a few times a week.
It's good for your

productivity. If you work all the time but don\'t make time for
yourself, you\'ll burn out.

M: thanks for your advice. I'll try it out.

W: good luck.

(I feel like I\'m always working late with no time for anything but the
job. I\'m finding it hard to balance

work and life. For example, if I have dinner plans one night, I will get
into work earlier to meet my deadlines ahead of schedule. She arranges
what she needs to do around what she wants to do. Even if I have done
all my work for the day, I will probably be hit with a new assignment at
5 o\'clock. Working so late every day isn\'t healthy. It means that you
shouldn\'t be afraid to turn something down when you have too much work.
If someone is reliable, they are trusted by others. People won\'t give
you more time to do your job unless you ask for it. She thinks doing a
good job is better than a rushed job. If you work all the time but
don\'t make time for yourself, you\'ll burn out. If he doesn\'t make
time for himself, he\'ll burn out.

### Part4

Vocabulary

*V/1 Employee Types*

Difficult employees often fail to conduct themselves in a professional
manner. Here are some

common types of difficult employees.

**employees who make excuses**

Employees who make excuses try to avoid responsibility when things go
wrong. If a manager is too accepting of excuses, employees will keep
making them. So, it\'s better to set clear expectations about how
employees should behave.

**employees who gossip**


Employees who gossip spread rumors and talk about people behind their
backs. If they hear

confidential information, they will likely tell other people. They can
cause serious divisions within a

team by creating distrust.

**negative employees**

Negative employees often complain about their job or company. Over time,
their attitude can spread

to their co-workers and lower team morale. To deal with a negative
employee, try to find out what is causing their negativity. By
understanding why they\'re being negative, you could help improve their
attitude.

**egotistical employees**

Egotistical employees are self-centered. They always claim to be right,
and they are not willing to

accept other people\'s opinions. They often put their needs before the
needs of the team, which

makes them bad team players.

(It\'s difficult to trust an employee who makes excuses because they
won\'t accept responsibility for

their mistakes. His boss trusts him with confidential information, but
he often gossips about it with

the rest of the team. Difficult employees often fail to conduct
themselves in a professional manner. If

a manager is too accepting of excuses, employees will keep making them.

Having an open conversation with negative employees can help you better
understand what is

causing their negativity. It\'s difficult to work with egotistical
employees since they don\'t accept others\'

opinions. Negative employees often complain about their job or company.)

*V/2 How to Handle Them*

Difficult employees are hard to manage, but they should not be ignored.
Here are some guidelines

that can help you handle them.

**Observe the behavior.**

Before actually approaching the difficult employee, you need to observe
their behavior. Consider

how their behavior has changed, or how it has been a problem. Collect
facts about the difficult employee\'s behavior instead of speculating or
believing office rumors.

**Listen to the employee.**

You can have a one-on-one conversation with the employee to listen to
what they have to say. It

gives them a chance to explain and may help you identify the cause of
their behavior. For example,

they may have personal problems that make them negative. Or maybe they
feel undervalued or are

even unaware of how they\'re acting.

**Discuss solutions.**

Once you know what is causing their negative behavior, you can come up
with solutions for it. For example, if an employee feels undervalued,
you could consider giving them more responsibility. Addressing the core
needs of an employee can improve their behavior.

**Follow up with the employee**

After the discussion, regularly follow up with the employee to check
their performance. Throughout

the process, you need to offer advice and be supportive. With regular
feedback and guidance, an employee can gradually improve.But if the
employee hasn\'t changed, you may need to involve HR to take further
management actions.

(Having a one-on-one conversation with the difficult employee may help
you identify the cause of

their behavior.

If an employee feels undervalued, you could consider giving them a
challenging task. Make sure to

follow up with the employee to check their performance If the employee
hasn\'t changed, you may

need to involve HR to handle the situation)


*V/3 How to Give Feedback*

**Impersonal**

To be impersonal means to not show or involve personal feelings.
Impersonal feedback focuses on someone\'s behavior rather than their
personality. It addresses specific actions that an employee can change.
If feedback criticizes someone\'s personality, they may feel insulted
and won\'t accept it.

**consistent**

To be consistent means to always behave or happen in a similar way.
Keeping your feedback

consistent requires you to have clear standards to evaluate employee
behavior. If your feedback to

an employee always changes, they won\'t know what they\'re expected to
do.

**Actionable**

Actionable feedback offers clear steps to improve an employee\'s
performance. It suggests specific

ways to change their behavior. If feedback only focuses on why an
employee needs to improve, but

not how they can improve, it will be hard to implement.

**Empathetic**

To be empathetic means to be able to understand and share the feelings
of someone else. Being empathetic to a difficult employee allows you to
look at things from their perspective. This can help you gain a better
understanding of why they behaved the way they did.

> (If you don\'t use impersonal feedback when talking to a difficult
> employee, you may make the

situation worse. If you can\'t keep your feedback impersonal, employees
may think you are criticizing

their personality. А manager who offers consistent feedback and guidance
to difficult employees

often brings positive changes to their behavior. Employees can easily
get confused if the feedback

they receive is inconsistent. If she had kept her feedback more
impersonal, he may have been more willing to accept it.

If you want your employees to change, you need to give them actionable
feedback and clear goals

to work towards. The more specific and constructive your feedback is,
the more actionable it is for

the employee. Someone who is empathetic can sense other people\'s
emotions and easily imagine

their point of view.)

*V/4 Workplace Misconduct*

All offices should aim to make sure their employees are treated fairly
and equally. Here are some common forms of misconduct that are either
unethical or illegal in an office.

**Bullying**

Bullying is the act of treating people in a mean and threatening way.
Office bullies target people who

they can push around. In most cases, office bullying is done by someone
with authority, such as a manager or senior employee.

**sexual harassment**

Sexual harassment is when someone behaves sexually in a way that makes
people uncomfortable.

It includes sexual jokes or comments about a person\'s appearance.
Sometimes people won\'t report sexual harassment because they\'re afraid
of being retaliated against.

**Discrimination**

Discrimination happens when someone is treated differently from others
in unfair way. People are

often discriminated against because of their age, race, or sex. If
someone has been refused a job because of the skin color, they have been
discriminated against.

**Retaliation**

Retaliation refers to acting against someone who has upset you. In the
office, retaliation can occur

when an employee has offended their manager. If they have reported their
manager, their manager


may try to punish them. They may give the employee extra work to do, or
become overly critical of

the employee\'s work.

(An office bully may use their power to embarrass or insult other
employees. He was fired after

being accused of sexual harassment. While many people have experienced
workplace bullying,

many offices don\'t have policies to prevent it. More often than not,
workplace bullying won\'t be

reported and the victim will just there leave the job. Sometimes office
bullies are openly aggressive,

but usually they will criticize people behind their back. Many companies
have a zero-tolerance policy towards sexual harassment.

If an employee is unfairly treated because she is a woman, she is a
victim of gender discrimination.

He felt he was fired in retaliation for complaining about his manager,
so he sued the company. She thought her manager was retaliating against
her by not giving her a promotion. Most countries have laws to protect
against workplace discrimination. It is illegal to discriminate against
someone\'s age when hiring them.)

Dialogue \--A Bad Employee

W: Thanks for coming to see me, Daniel. I've read you email. You said
that you've been having

trouble with one of you team members?

M: Yes, his name is Sam. On one hand, he's done some great work that
show real creativity and

passion. But sometimes he is very sloppy. And he never double checks his
work which grow more

work for others. I've been receiving complain from more than one of my
team members.

W: Have you done anything to discuss this issue with him?

M: That's the problem. I've told him again and again that he needs to
stop making the same mistake,

but he ignores me. If I tell him that he has done something wrong, he
gets defensive. Last week I got

so fed up that I yelled at him. It's bad but I just want our teams to do
well and he makes me really

hard.

W: I understand. But judging from what you have said, Sam has got some
potential. Right?

M: He does great work when he\'s careful and stays focused. But more
often than not, he isn't so

focused and he makes mistakes.

W: This is certainly a challenge. But have you considered changing you
approach when talking to

him?

M: approach? What do you mean?

W: Well, I feel like you've made it sound like he's the problem, not his
work. If he senses you think

that he\'s a problem, it may be why he gets defensive. I think your
feedback can be more effective if

it's framed more around his work.

M: Hmm Maybe my feedback is too personal and negative.

W: Yeah. Instead of saying "You did this wrong", say, "This document
needs more revisions". It may seem unimportant, but some employees are
sensitive.

M: I see. Maybe I should give more positive and encouragement.

W: definitely. You've said he can be passionate so he clearly care about
some of the work he does.

But you need to show him his contribution that make difference, not just
his mistake. A good

manager not only hit the target, but also bring out the best of his
employee.

M: yeah. I'll try to make a change and talk to him this afternoon.

W: Great. Let's see how it goes. If it still doesn't go well, we can
take things from there.

M: of course. Thanks for your advice. I'll make a better effort.


### Part5

Vocabulary

*V/1 Stages of Negotiation*

A negotiation is a discussion between people who want to reach an
agreement. Whether negotiating

a business deal or a salary, a negotiation will normally go through five
stages.

**Planning**

Before entering a negotiation, negotiators must plan and prepare their
positions. In the planning

stage, negotiators will research the other side\'s position and
anticipate where they may agree or disagree. They will also set goals,
establish their bottom line, and research the other side.

**Clarifying**

During the clarifying stage, negotiators will contact each other to
clarify what they want to achieve.

By discovering what the other side wants, both parties can see if they
share common goals. Once

their needs have been clarified, the negotiations can begin.

**Bargaining**

During the bargaining stage, negotiators make compromises until an
agreement is reached. They

often aim for an outcome that benefits both sides without giving up too
much.

**Settling**

In the settling stage, negotiators reach an agreement and decide how to
implement it. After the

terms of an agreement have been decided, a contract will be drafted and
signed. If an agreement

can\'t be reached, negotiators may find a third party for advice.

**Implementing**

In the implementation stage, an agreement or contract is put into
effect. Implementing an agreement strengthens the relationship between
both parties. If both parties follow through on the agreement, it will
be easier to negotiate next time.

(During the planning stage, both sides will determine what they want and
what they are willing to

accept. By clarifying what the other side wants, both parties can see
whether they share common

goals.

In the bargaining stage, each side adjusts their position until an
agreement is reached. If both parties uphold an agreement after
implementing it, it will strengthen their relationship. If an agreement
isn\'t reached in the settling stage, a third party may need to
mediate.)

*V/2 Negotiating Terms*

**anchor point**

An anchor point is a reference point that negotiations are centered
around. It is the best outcome

that one side hopes to achieve. Normally, the first offer made during a
negotiation serves as the

anchor point. Negotiators try to anchor the negotiation to their
advantage to gain the upper hand.

**bottom line**

A bottom line is the worst outcome that one side will accept. If someone
is pushed beyond their

bottom line, they may walk away from the negotiation.

**BATNA**

BATNA stands for \"Best Alternative to a Negotiated Agreement\". It is
the second-best option a side

may have in a negotiation. A BATNA can be used as an alternative if an
agreement can\'t be

reached. When one side has a good BATNA, they can make fewer
compromises, so they have more power.

**Leverage**


Leverage is the power that one side has to influence another. If you
have more leverage in a

negotiation, you can persuade people to accept your terms. Typically,
the side most in need of an agreement has the least amount of leverage.

**Deadlock**

In a deadlock, neither side is willing to compromise and no agreement
can be made. A deadlock

happens when one side pursues its own interests instead of mutually
beneficial terms. To break a deadlock, negotiators must find a win-win
outcome.

**Concession**

A concession is a compromise that\'s made in order to reach an
agreement. Making concessions

allows both sides to get part of what they want. But giving too many
concessions may make one

side seem weak or desperate.

*V/3 Negotiating Techniques*

You can use various techniques to help improve your chances of having a
successful negotiation.

**Listen actively.**

Listen actively to your counterpart to understand their needs and point
of view. This shows them that

you are interested in their needs, which helps build trust.

**Build rapport.**

When people have rapport, they understand each other and communicate
well. Building rapport increases the chance of reaching an agreement
during a negotiation. Rapport can be built by listening actively,
sharing information and finding common interests.

**Ask open-ended questions.**

Asking open-ended questions allows you to gather more information from
the other side. It

encourages your counterpart to give longer answers, which helps you
understand their position and needs.

**Set a high anchor.**

Setting a high anchor point increases your chances for a good deal. By
setting a high anchor point,

your counterpart may make concessions that are closer to what you want.
However, if your anchor is

too high, you may be seen as unreasonable or unrealistic.

**Emphasize urgency.**

Creating a sense of urgency can lead to a quick agreement. If
negotiations are moving slowly, you

could set a deadline or stop the talks. But if you push too
aggressively, the other side may become uncomfortable and walk away.

(He could have understood their point of view had he asked additional
open-ended questions. By showing interest in your counterpart\'s needs,
you can build trust. To create urgency, he said he would give them until
Friday to accept his terms or he would pull out of the negotiations.)

*V/4 Negotiating Styles*

Because people have different negotiating styles, it can be hard to
predict how the other party will

act in a negotiation. Knowing different negotiating styles will prepare
you to negotiate successfully.

**Avoiding**

Negotiators who have an avoiding style are often cautious and try to
avoid conflict. They don\'t immediately pursue their own interests, and
let their counterpart control the negotiation.

**Accommodating**

Accommodating negotiators focus on building and maintaining
relationships with their counterpart.

Rather than pursuing their own interests, they are concerned with how to
satisfy the needs of the

other party.


**Compromising**

Compromising negotiators look for the middle ground. They will often
make concessions in order to satisfy both parties\' basic needs.

**Collaborative**

Collaborative negotiators try to understand and cooperate with their
counterparts. They focus on solutions that satisfy the needs of both
parties as much as possible.

**Competitive**

Competitive negotiators are aggressive. They focus on their own needs
rather than maintaining a relationship with the other party. Negotiating
in a competitive way can lead to a fast agreement, but it can also lead
to a fast deadlock.

(Negotiators with an avoiding style don\'t immediately pursue their own
interests. An avoiding style

works well when the negotiation is not important or when more
information is needed. An

accommodating style works well when the relationship with the other side
is more significant than

the negotiation. If one side is too accommodating, they may concede more
than they need to.

We don\'t mind compromising and settling for less as long as the
relationship remains strong. А collaborative style can be mutually
beneficial because negotiators look for a win-win situation.
Collaborative negotiators think of solutions that can satisfy the needs
of both parties as much as possible. I didn\'t like how aggressive he
was when he kept trying to push her beyond my bottom line.)

Dialogue\--Negotiating Advice

W: Hey Jack, it's Alice.

M: Hey Alice, what's up?

W: Actually, I'm calling you for some advice. Last week, you told me you
had negotiated a big raise

for yourself. So I'm wondering if you can give me some tips.

M: Sure. I'll be glad I can help. What do you want to know?

W: I'll have a performance review next Friday, and I really want to use
this opportunity to negotiate a raise. Do you think I should make the
first offer?

M: well, traditional wisdom suggests, you let your boss make the first
offer. But the key is whoever

makes the first offer sets an anchor point around which the negotiation
will be centered. If you start

high, your boss may adjust a figure down slightly. That's better than
receiving a lower offer and

trying to negotiate up.

W: Hmm That make a lot of sense. Actually I was hoping to get a 10%
raise, so I should probably

ask for like a 15% raise first so I'll have room to make concessions,
right?

M: you've got the idea. It's more likely that you can get a big raise
that way. When negotiating,

remember to get examples that highlight your performance. Is there
anything you've done that really shows your boss why you deserve a
raise?

W: Yes, sure. I developed, managed, and launched our last three
marketing campaigns. As a result,

our sales have increased by 25% over the past two quarters. In addition,
I've taken on

responsibilities that's not in my job requirement such as leading team
meeting and mentoring new

staffs.

M: wow. I would definitely give you a raise if I were your boss.

W: Thanks. But I'm still concerned. What if he turns me down?

M: Well, in that case, you need to be firm and stick to your position.
Try to find out why your request

was rejected and how you could improve in the future. And don't be
afraid to ask to rivist your

conversation in a later time. A good manager will recognize your
achievements and value to the company.


W: you're right. Thank you so much. Jack I'll definitely use your tips
next Friday.

M: Don't mention it. I'm confident you will get what you deserve.

W: Thanks. Talk to you later. Bye.

M: Good luck.


**Unit2**

### Part1

Vocabulary

*V/1 Calculating Market Share*

Market share is the percentage of a market\'s total sales earned by a
company or product.

Calculating market share allows a company to determine its position in a
market. Here are some

basic steps to calculate market share.

**Determine a period**

To calculate a company\'s market share, you must choose a period to
examine, such as a quarter or

a year. For example, a company can compare its first and second quarter
to see how quickly it is

growing in the market.

**Find out the company\'s total sales.**

Next, calculate a company\'s total sales revenue within that period.
Multiply the total number of units

sold by the average sales price per unit. If a company only sells one
product, its sales revenue is the

total sales revenue of the company. If a company sells multiple
products, add up the sales revenue

for each product.

**Find out the total market sales.**

Next, calculate the total sales for market that a company operates in.
Sales information from publicly traded companies is easy to obtain,
since they are legally required to share it. It can be found through
company websites, shareholder reports, and trade associations.

**Divide the company\'s revenue by the industry\'s total.**

Finally, to divide a company\'s total sales by total market sales. The
result is the company\'s market

share. Comparing a company\'s market share with the growth of a market
shows whether it has

increased or decreased. If a company\'s revenue has grown more slowly
than the market, its market

share has declined

(By analyzing a company\'s market share, you can see how well it is
performing and compare it to

other companies. To calculate total sales revenue, multiply its total
number of units sold and the

average sales price per unit. Before calculating a company\'s market
share, you must to determine a

specific period examine. The company compared its first and second
quarter to see how quickly it

was growing in the market. The company has steadily lost market share
over a period of three

years. After comparing both quarters, they have determined that their
company\'s market share

hasn\'t been growing quickly. By analyzing a company\'s market share,
you can assess its market performance.

If a company only sells one product, the sales revenue of the product is
the total sales revenue of

the company. If a company\'s revenue grows slower than the market, its
market share declines. To determine a company\'s market share, divide
its total sales by its industry\'s total market sales.)

*V/2 The 4Ps of Marketing*

The marketing mix is a model that helps a company make marketing
decisions. It can be used to influence consumers to purchase a
company\'s products. It consists of four factors: Product, Price,
Promotion, and Place.

**Product**

Products are goods or services that satisfy consumer needs or desires. A
company should regularly update its products to meet changing customer
demands. Understanding the product life cycle can help companies prepare
for and adapt to these changes.

**Price**


Price impacts supply, demand, marketing strategies and profit margins.
Consumer demand is one

factor to consider before companies decide the price of a product. For
example, customers shop

more around certain holidays, like Christmas. So, by reducing their
prices during the Christmas

season, companies can boost short-term sales.

**Promotion**

Promotion allows a company to build brand awareness and interest in its
products. A business can promote itself through advertising, marketing,
and public relations. When promoting a product, a company should give
consumers a clear reason for why they should buy it.

**Place**

Place relates to the channels that a company uses to sell its products.
These channels may include stores, websites, and mobile apps. In a
placement strategy, a company identifies the best channels to distribute
its products.

(In order to satisfy the needs of consumers, companies strive to
continually improve their products. Companies need to continually
improve their products to satisfy consumer preferences. If

companies can successfully promote their products, they will have a
better chance of standing out in

the market.)

*V/3 Market Share Terms*

Total addressable market, or TAM, is the total market demand for a
product in a year. It is used to indicate how much potential a business
has in a market. Before calculating TAM, a company should consider its
ability to reach its target market.

**target market**

A target market refers to a group of consumers that a product or service
is aimed at. These

customers can be identified by income level, age, gender, or location.
By defining a target market,

companies can make their marketing campaigns more focused.

**unit sales**

Unit sales refers to the number of products a company sells over a
period of time. For example, if a company sold 5 million mobile phones
in a year, then it sold 5 million units. Unit sales analysis can be used
to calculate a company\'s average product price.

**key players**

Companies with a large market share are known as key players. They have
a dominant position in

the market. Without competitive products and services, new companies may
struggle to compete

with key players. However, by analyzing key players\' strengths and
weaknesses, companies can

find their own niche in a market.

**market growth rate**

Market growth rate refers to the percentage increase in sales in a
market over a period of time.

Keeping track of the market growth rate allows a company to compare its
performance with

competitors. For example, if a company\'s sales have grown less than
market sales, it has lost

market share.

(By defining a target market, companies can make their marketing
campaigns more appealing and effective. Comparing unit sales regularly
can help determine if the company is moving in a positive direction.
Calculating the TAM suggests how much potential a business has in a
marketplace.

New companies cannot compete directly with key players unless their
products are innovative. In

order to compete with key players, companies need to find their own
niche in the market. If new companies can compete successfully, they are
likely to become key players within a market.)


*V/4 Market Positions*

Market dominance is how strong a company\'s brand, services or products
are compared to its competitors. Typically, there are four types of
market dominance categories.

**Leader**

A market leader has the largest market share in its industry. It holds a
dominant position. Market

leaders are often the first to develop new products and business
methods. In order to maintain their

position, most market leaders invest heavily in research and
development.

**Challenger**

A market challenger has a strong position in the market but not a
dominant market share. It may

adopt aggressive strategies to increase its market share. Challengers
can also increase their market share by focusing on areas that a market
leader has overlooked.

**Follower**

A market follower does not have a strong position in a market. It
doesn\'t take risks, and usually

copies other companies products or strategies. They do not focus on
increasing their market share.

But by adopting the best practices of other companies, they can maintain
a stable position in the

market.

**Nicher**

A nicher is a company that concentrates on a specialized market. Nichers
typically provide products

or services that are not offered by other companies. By establishing a
niche, a company can avoid

competition while making a profit.

(One of the best strategies for challengers to gain market share is to
introduce differentiated

products. If they hadn\'t invested so heavily in research development,
they would have lost their and position as a market leader.

Although it didn\'t have a strong position in the market, the company
was still able to exist as a

follower. New companies can find a niche market by identifying demands
that are not being met by

other companies. Since followers don\'t have differentiated products or
strategies, they normally have substantially less market share. Since
followers aren\'t innovative, they normally have substantially less
market share. Nichers aim at being a big fish in a small pond instead of
being a small fish in a big pond. )

Dialogue\--Analyzing Market Share

L: Hey, George. are you busy?

G: Not at all, Lucas. What's on your mind?

L: I want to ask you questions about the research report I just read.
It's about Luxury market in India.

G: Sure. What would you like to know?

L:The report says the luxury market is growing rapidly, with more money
being spent than ever

before. For example, from 2015 to 2016, the industry growth rate
increased by 35%

G: Well, India's upper middle class has been growing, which means more
people have money to

spend on luxury items.

L: yeah. Some companies have seen higher sales than ever before. For
example, the company

Trendi had a steady sales growth rate of about 9% from 2015 to 2016.
Trendi\'s market share

decreased from 7% about 5% over the same period. Why is that?

G: Well, you can't only consider the revenue generated by Trendi. You
need to compare it with sales

for the luxury industry as a whole.

L: do you mean dividing Trendi's total sales revenue by total industry
sales ?


G: yes. Also look here. In 2015, Trendi\'s sales increased by 8% and the
industry grew by more than

32%. In 2016, the industry grew by more than 30%, while Trendi\'s sales
only increased by 9%. In

other words, Trendi wasn\'t keeping pace with the industry.

L: So while Trendi was gaining sales, it was actually losing ground in
the market?

G: exactly. I think Trendi has to change its business strategy to appeal
to new customers.

L: How might they do that?

G: By diversifying its product line or appealing to new demographics, it
might be able to reclaim

some of its market share. But we will have to wait and see. I'm not
Trendi's CEO after all.

L: Emmm. The markets really get competitive. I'm excited about what
Trendi will do next.

G: me too.

### Part2

Vocabulary

*V/1 A SWOT Analysis*

A SWOT analysis is a way to evaluate a company\'s position in a market.
It identifies a company\'s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and
threats. A business may conduct a SWOT analysis to assess its
performance or develop strategies.

**Strengths**

A strength is an advantage that a company has over its competitors. It
is what a company excels at. Strengths can include effective management,
strong brand equity, or positive company culture. A strength is an
internal factor, which means a company has control over it.

**Weaknesses**

A weakness is an issue that prevents a company from performing at its
best. It is an internal problem

of the company. Weaknesses include debt, outdated technology, or high
turnover. Companies need

to address their weaknesses in order to stay competitive.

**Opportunities**

Opportunities are positive factors in a market. They are external, which
means they exist outside of

a company. Examples of opportunities include new technology or customer
demographics. If a

company identifies an opportunity early on, it can gain an advantage
over its competitors.

**Threats**

A threat is an external factor that could harm a company. Examples of
threats include economic

downturn and increased competition. Companies cannot control threats,
but they can respond to

them. By anticipating a threat, a company can minimize its impact. In a
nutshell, a SWOT analysis

can help you pinpoint problems and develop relevant strategies.

(To understand what it could leverage and improve, the company conducted
an internal analysis of

its strengths and weaknesses. A company\'s strengths are what it excels
at and differentiate it from

its competitors. Having strong brand equity is a strength because it
means customer recognition. If a company is looking to attract new
customers, a poor online presence can be a serious weakness. If a
company wants to assess factors that it can directly control, it should
evaluate its strengths and weaknesses.

E-commerce is a threat to traditional retailers who have been forced to
change their business

models to survive. A company can improve its market share by
anticipating new opportunities and

taking advantage of them. In China, many businesses consider the Spring
Festival as an opportunity

to sell more products. For many restaurants, the rise of healthy eating
presents an opportunity to

attract new customers by offering more balanced options. If they don\'t
react quickly to the threat of

e-commerce, they will go out of business. More companies are investing
in cybersecurity to

minimize the threat of cyber-attacks.)


*V/2 Common Examples*

**positive brand image**

Brand image is the perception people have of a product or company. When
a company has a strong brand image, it means that it has a good
reputation. People are more likely to buy from brands that they trust.
So, brand image can be leveraged to sell new products or enter new
markets.

**poor customer service**

Customer service is the assistance a company gives to customers before,
during, and after a

purchase. When a company offers poor customer service, it doesn\'t serve
its customers well. If a customer has a negative customer service
experience with a company, they may choose not to buy from it again.

**new consumer trends**

Consumer trends refer to changing consumer habits and behaviors. By
identifying new consumer

trends, companies can create new products that appeal to customers. If a
company does not keep

up with consumer trends, it could miss business opportunities.

**Competitors**

A successful company differentiates itself from its competitors. It can
stand out by offering unique products or establishing a strong brand
image. If a company can\'t differentiate itself, it may have a smaller
market share. And if its competition increases, it could lose revenue.

(They launched a marketing campaign to improve their brand image. The
tech company has created

a great brand image by associating its products with fun and creativity.
The company\'s brand image

was badly damaged after a scandal. If a company gets involved in a bad
customer service scandal,

it can be hard for them to rebuild their reputation. After a customer
service crisis, the company

changed its policy to prevent loss of customers.

Competition occurs when multiple companies fight for market share. A
fast food chain recently

started offering low-calorie meals in response to a trend toward healthy
food. The growing trend

toward vegan food encourages many big name brands to offer vegan options
to their customers. If a

company does not keep up with consumer trends it could miss new business
opportunities. The electronics market is extremely competitive because
there is a growing demand for new high-quality products.)

*V/3 Internal Resources*

A SWOT analysis consists of internal analysis and external analysis. In
order to handle opportunities

and threats, a company needs to understand its internal resources.

**financial resources**

Financial resources refer to the money that is available for a business
to use. Financial resources

include cash, stocks and bonds. If a company doesn\'t have enough
financial resources, it may be

unable to invest in new business projects.

**tangible assets**

A tangible asset is an asset that has a physical form. Equipment or
property are examples of

tangible assets. If a company needs money urgently, it may sell its
tangible assets to raise cash.

**intangible assets**

An intangible asset is an asset that is not physical. Intellectual
property and brand equity are

examples of intangible assets. Some intangible assets, like brand
recognition, cannot be sold, but increase the value of a company.

**human capital**


Human capital refers to people employed by a company. It is sometimes
called human resources.

Human capital includes employees and the intangible value they add to a
company.

(The company liquidated most of its assets to generate cash. A lack of
financial resources is a major threat to a company and can hinder its
activities. A company needs to have enough financial resources to
respond to changes in the market. The company was forced to sell most of
its tangible assets to pay off its debt. The company was on the verge of
bankruptcy so they sold most of their tangible assets in order to stay
afloat.

Businesses can invest in human capital by offering training and
education opportunities to their employees. Some intangible assets, like
copyrights can be purchased.)

*V/4 Related Actions*

**to leverage**

To leverage something means to use it to its full potential. The company
leveraged its distribution network to deliver goods faster than its
competitors.

**to capitalize on**

To capitalize on something means to take advantage of it. If you don\'t
capitalize on an opportunity,

you may not get another chance.

**to overcome**

To overcome something means to handle it successfully. A company needs
to overcome its

weaknesses to keep competitive.

**to reduce**

To reduce something means to make it smaller or less significant. They
decided to reduce the R&D budget and focus on sales. A company can
reduce threats by preparing for them.

(By leveraging its strengths, a company can implement unique strategies
that can give it an

advantage. You should leverage the results of your SWOT analysis to help
improve your company.

The company capitalized on its brand recognition to expand in to a new
market. If you don\'t

capitalize on this trend, your competitors will. She capitalized on her
experience to negotiate a

higher salary.

They hired a consultant to overcome their lack of expertise. The
company\'s products were outdated,

but it overcame this issue by investing more in R&D. The company
overcame the scandal and re- established its market position. The
company needed to reduce its workforce in order to cut costs. Companies
must stay aware of market trends to capitalize on opportunities and
reduce threats. It reduced the threat of increased competition by
focusing on smaller niche markets.)

Dialogue\--SWOT the Problem

> M1: As we all know, our company Big Burger, has been underperforming
> in the market this year.

Sales have been down, especially among 25-34 years old. So I\'d like us
to do a SWOT analysis to

find out where we are in the market and how we can improve.

W: Sure. Our main strength is that we are the oldest fast food company
in the industry with a strong brand name. We are also operating over
14000 stores across the country, which is more than many of our
competitors.

M2: Yeah. But even so, people don't seem to be interested in what we're
selling.

M1: It's true. Our menu is our weakness. Young customers usually want to
try something new and interesting. But our menu has offered the same
food for past 4 years. It's become too boring.

M2: Yeah. And market research has shown that people\'s tastes are
changing, especially among 25-

> 34 years old. Generally they are more interested in healthy food than
> previous generations. This trend towards healthy eating is a big
> threat for fast food business.


W: you're right. And another threat from comes our competitors who have
been offering menus that

are healthier and more diversified. They are taking away many of our
customers.

M1: Emm... so I think the increasing demand for healthy food and more
menu option can be an opportunity for us. We have the locations and
brand name to offer and improve the menu.

W: but it isn't new menu enough to make different. Even if we were to
change it, how could we

convince people to return to our restaurants? Once a customer has formed
an image about a brand,

it can be very hard to change their opinion.

M1: Remember that the breakfast food market is growing. That's another
opportunity we have. And people love our coffee. Even though sales are
down, customers have been regularly buying Big Burger coffee.

M2: So we can use our to coffee to get customer to try out a breakfast
menu. As long as they like

the food, they come back for more.

M1: Exactly. Let's do some research on what we discuss today. Then next
week we will have follow-

up meeting to revise some of these ideas.

W: sounds good. I guess these are enough for us to look at later.

M1: Thanks. Mary. I appreciate it.

### Part3

Vocabulary

*V/1 Market Research Basics*

Market research is the gathering and analyzing of market data. It
provides insights into industry

shifts and consumer preferences. Here is how market research is commonly
conducted.

**Identify research objectives**

Before conducting market research, researchers should first identify
their objectives. These state

what the research aims to discover or accomplish. Having objectives
guides the collection, analysis,

and interpretation of data.

**Develop a research plan.**

Once research objectives have been established, a research plan will be
developed. It includes what kinds of data to examine, as well as methods
for collecting data.

**Collect Data**

Data collection is the systematic gathering and measuring of data. After
a plan has been developed, researchers will begin to collect data.
Depending on the research objective, they may use questionnaires,
interviews, focus groups and direct observation.

**Analyze and interpret the data**

Once researchers have gathered data, they will analyze and interpret it.
Through analysis,

researchers can discover trends and relationships within the data. After
data has been analyzed, researchers will draw conclusions based on it.

**Create a research report and take action.**

After a research report has been finished, it will be presented.
Researchers will summarize their

methods, present their conclusions, and recommend the next course of
action.

(A research objective determines what methods will be used to gather
data. Finding out whether a

target audience is interested in buying your product is an example of a
research objective. A

research plan should take into account the research budget and ensure
the costs are kept within it.

Establishing research objectives helps researchers determine how to
conduct their research.


Data collection is the systematic approach to gathering and measuring
data. Data analysis looks for relationships or trends that help you
develop the right strategies. A research report should summarize the
research process, present the data collected and recommend the next
course of action. You can schedule a meeting with company leaders and
members of the marketing team to discuss what to do next. Researchers
may refer to qualitative and quantitative sources when collecting data.
Through data analysis, researchers can discover relationships and trends
that aid in business decision making. )

*V/2 Research Methods*

There are two major types of market research: primary research and
secondary research. Several different methods can be used to conduct
this research.

**Primary research**

Primary research is conducted to gather first-hand information.
First-hand information can be

gathered from interviews, questionnaires, and focus groups. Primary
research allows researchers to

address specific questions, but it can be costly and time consuming.

**Secondary research**

Secondary research is based on information from existing sources. It
usually saves time and money,

but its data may not specifically address the questions of concern.
Secondary research is often used before large-scale primary research to
guide the focus.

**interviews**

Conducting interviews is a qualitative research technique. It is used to
collect data directly from respondents. Interviews are useful for
finding out personal feelings, expectations, and perceptions.

**Questionnaires**

A questionnaire is a set of questions used to assess customers'
opinions. It's used for collecting

data from a large group. Usually the multiple-choice questions in a
questionnaire can be quantified

and analyzed easily. Open-ended questions aren't normally quantifiable,
but they can give

companies detailed insights into consumer preference.

**focus groups**

A focus groups is a small group of people interviewed by researchers.
Like one-on-one interviews,

focus groups allow researchers to get detailed feedback from potential
and existing customers.

Unlike an interview, participants can interact with and influence each
other during the discussion.

(Primary research is useful for gathering specific information, but is
can be costly and time

consuming. Secondary research usually saves time and money, but it may
lack specific information

to address the company's needs.

Conducting interviews is a qualitative research technique used for
collecting data directly from respondents. Usually the multiple-choice
questions in a questionnaire can be quantified and analyzed easily.
Interviews can be a free-flowing conversation or a formal set of
questions. It's used for collecting data from a large group.)

*V/3 Related Actions*

**to hypothesize**

To hypothesize means to suggestion an explanation for something that
hasn't been proven yet. Hypothesizing serves as a guide to your testing
and research methods.

**to induce**

To induce means to cause something to happen. Raising income levels have
induced a surge in consumer spending.

**to validate**


To validate means to confirm that something is correct. Their company
uses a variety of methods to validate the market research hypothesis
they have formed.

**to investigate**

To investigate means to closely examine something in order to find out
more about it. The company conducted research to investigate why
consumers had stopped buying their products.

**to correlate**

To correlate means to have a mutual relationship or connection. If one
thing correlates with another,

they are closely connected and depend on each other. The best products
on the market do not

necessarily correlate with the highest sales.

(He used evidence to validate his ideas. An increase in construction
induced the demand for steel in

the region. The aim of our new marketing campaign is to induce customer
loyalty. To hypothesize

means to suggest an explanation for something that hasn't been proven
yet. After conducting in-

depth research on the market, their initial hypothesis was proven to be
false. Their company uses a

variety of methods to validate the market research data they have
collected. To validate your idea,

you need to provide evidence to support it.

To investigate means to closely examine something in order to find out
more about it. The company investigated the products, services, and
marketing techniques of its competitors. You should investigate whether
or not the same research has already been carried out. The best products
on the market do not necessarily correlate with the highest sales.
Through correlation analysis, they try to figure out whether longer
articles get more shares on Facebook. For e-commerce companies, focusing
on customer satisfaction correlates with market success.)

*V/4 Key Research Elements*

Here are a few factors to consider when conducting market research.

**business regulations**

Business regulations are laws that control the way businesses operate.
Companies need to

research business regulations before entering a new market. Otherwise
they may be unaware of

potential challenges waiting for them.

**market segmentation**

Market segmentation divides a company's consumers into different groups.
Consumers may be segmented based on demographics, location, and consumer
behavior. This helps a company to understand the needs of different
consumers.

**industry trends**

Industry trends are changes in the buying behaviors of consumers. A
business has to pay attention

to current industry trends to keep up with them. For example, as
e-commerce becomes more

popular, retailers will need to sell online in order to reach more
customers.

**marketing channels**

Marketing channels are ways in which consumers can access products and
services. Retailing and wholesaling are common examples of marketing
channels.

(If they don't follow the business regulations of the country, they risk
breaking local laws. The

company segmented its demographics into several markets to target
customers more accurately.

Market segmentation allows organizations to categorize the needs of
different consumers and

generate demand for their products.

Relying on a single marketing channel isn't advisable for any company.
Understanding industry

trends is essential for a company to stay competitive. Large companies
usually have a number of different marketing channels to get their
products to customers. Businesses have to pay attention to the current
industry trend to keep up with it. )


Dialogue\--How to Research

W: Hey, Phil. I'm Julia, from sales. Do you mind if I join you?

M: Hey Julia. Of course not. What's up?

W: I'm wondering if you can teach me something about data collection in
market research. As you

know market research is important for increasing sales. And I work for a
sales team. So I am very interested in how research data is collected.

M: No problem. Normally, we start with secondary research. That means
research with data that has already been published. We search for
resources online and sometimes we buy studies from consulting firms.
Then we'll compare it to previous research reports our company has done.

W: How about customer interviews or questionnaires?

M: That's primary research. It's usually conducted when our team wants
to gather first-hand

information about a specific issue or problem.

W: So it's new information that your team gathers for the company,
right?

M: Yes. We usually do primary research on how customers are responding
to our new product or

service. If we need to get quantitative data, we can do online
questionnaires. We also ask our data engineers to help us monitor and
collect specific information from our website. This help us examine and
analysis the customer's behavior. If we want qualitative data, we can
interview customers. It's also important to actually talk to customers
to get further insights into customer's behaviors.

W: I got it, so you conduct market research by doing both primary and
secondary research.

M: well, not always. For example, our latest report was a market
overview, so we collected more

relevant information through secondary research.

W: But wouldn't it have been good to get our customer's perspective
anyway?

M: In an ideal world, sure. But primary research can cost a lot of time
and money. Conducting

primary research for every problem wouldn't be practical. Because
secondary research uses data

that already exists and it is easy to buy and can be collected quickly.
And like I said, secondary

research also includes previous research from within the company. So
finding can still be company specific.

W: Oh, I see. Thanks for the primary. You've really clarified things for
me.

M: Sure. Feel free to ask if you have any questions.

W: I will. Thanks.

### Part4

Vocabulary

*V/1 Key Elements*

**party**

A party is a person or team of people who are involved in a negotiation.
When an agreement has been reach between both parties, a contract will
be signed. If one party breaks a contract, they could be sued by a
third-party beneficiary.

**terms**

The terms of a contract are the conditions that each party agrees to. By
entering into a contract, both parties are legally obligated to meet its
terms. If a party doesn't uphold the terms of a contract, the contract
will be broken, or breached.

**offer**


An offer is what one party will give in exchange for something from
another party. When one party proposes a contract to another, they are
making an offer. If one party disagrees with an offer, they may make a
counter-offer.

**condition**

In a contract, a condition is a situation that must occur in order for a
requirement to be met. If a condition hasn't been met by one party, the
other party isn't required to uphold the contract.

(They are being sued for breaching the terms of the contract. If one
party breaks a contract after it's

been signed, they could be sued by a third-party beneficiary. A contract
can't be signed if one party pulls

out of it. The terms of a contract state the obligations and conditions
of each party. The merger involved high level talks between multiple
parties.

They were very interested in having her join the company, so they made
her a generous offer. He

thought their offer was too low, so he made a higher counter-offer. She
didn't respond to their offer by

the deadline, so it was revoked. If Party B fails to meet the following
conditions, Party A reserves the

right to terminate the agreement. If they reject the original offer,
they may make a counter-offer. )

*V/2 Contract Types*

**employment contract**

An employment contract is between an employee and an employer. It
contains an employee's job responsibilities, salary, and working hours.

**sales contract**

A sales contract is an exchange of goods or services between a buyer and
a seller. It transfers the ownership of goods from one party to another
and states the amount paid for it.

**licensing agreement**

A licensing agreement involves the use of intellectual property, such as
a song or logo. By licensing something, a company can earn money from it
without giving up legal ownership of it. A brand may license its logo to
another company in exchange for a fee and a percentage of its profits.

**Non-Disclosure agreement (NDA)**

A non-disclosure agreement prevents a party from sharing confidential
information. An NDA is often signed when one party has access to
another's technology or business practices.

**property lease agreement**

A property lease agreement allows one party to rent property from
another. It is between a landlord, who owns the property, and a tenant,
who rents it. It includes duration of the lease and rental payments.

(A company is permitted to use the intellectual property of another
company under a licensing agreement. She signed an employment contract
with a new company. Without an employment contract, and employee may be
exploited by an employer. A sales contract describes the goods being
sold, including their weight, color and size. A sales contract is
drafted by a seller after they have received an order to purchase their
goods. By licensing something, a company can earn money from it without
giving up legal ownership of it.

Sometimes employees are required to sign an DNA if they have access to
sensitive information. The employees who have access to the company's
technology must sign non-disclosure agreements. A property lease
agreement details what a tenant must pay if something breaks. Property
lease agreements require tenants to pay for any damages they make to
property during their lease. )

*V/3 Contract Actions*

**to ratify**


To ratify something means to officially agree to it. Once both party
accept the terms of a contract, they need to ratify it. By signing a
contract, they are ratifying the agreement.

**to lease**

To lease means to allow someone to use something in exchange for money
for a period of time. When a lease is up, both parties will decide to
renew it or let it expire.

**to terminate**

To terminate means to end or stop something. If one party fails to
perform their duties in a contract, the contract may be terminated. When
a contract is terminated, both parties will no longer need to fulfill
the terms of the contract.

**to comply**

To comply means to follow a rule or order. Both parties must comply with
a contract after they have signed it. Breach of contract occurs when
either party does not comply with a contract.

(The signature of each party is required to ratify the agreement. They
haven't ratified the agreement, so they contract isn't valid. Now that
the company is expending, it has leased fifty new trucks. A business
will sign a commercial lease when it decides to rent office space.
Before a contract comes into effect, it must be first ratified.

If one party does not comply with a contract, the contract will have
been violated. The contract was

legally terminated before it took effect. If a contract has been
terminated because one party did not

uphold its terms, the other party may receive compensation for their
losses. The termination was due to

a breach in contract, so one party was eligible for compensation for
their losses. Failure to comply with a contract may result in legal
action. He sought compensation over their failure to comply with the
agreement. )

*V/4 Contract Disputes*

**arbitration**

When two parties have a disagreement, they may attempt arbitration.
Arbitration is a way to settle a dispute without going to court. In
arbitration, an independent third party is involved to assess and
resolved the dispute.

**damages**

Damages are money given as compensation to a party for a loss. If one
party has lost money because of a breach of contract, they may sue for
damages.

**repudiation**

Repudiation is the refusal to fulfill the terms of the contract. If one
party doesn't perform their duties in a contract, it will lead to
repudiation.

**frustration**

Frustration occurs when a contract can't be implemented for unexpected
reasons. Frustration of a contract is not the fault of either party. For
example, a lease will become frustrated if the property is destroyed by
a fire.

(If a party can prove a breach of contract in court, it will be awarded
damages. They preferred arbitration because it was faster and cheaper
than going to court. While arbitration is conducted outside courts, and
decision is legally enforced. They settled their dispute through
arbitration. The judge awarded them \$300,000 in damages. When they
couldn't settle their dispute through arbitration, one party sued the
other for damages. If one party has lost money because of a breach of
contract, they may sue for damages.

Repudiation may have consequences stated in a contract, or it may lead
to legal action. Their failure to pay on time caused the contract to be
repudiated. If a contract becomes frustrated, a new contract may be
drawn up. A contract will become frustrated if it violates the law. A
contracted party may sue for damages if it has lost money from a breach
of contract.)


Dialogue\--Negotiating Her Contract

M: Hey Laura. Come in!

W: Hi Alex. How are you?

M: I'm fine, thanks. Have you had a chance to look over your new
contract yet? If you agree with everything, just write your signature
and date on the last page. And I will send to HR.

W: Yes. I read it. And I do have a question. It seems there has been
changing made to the scope of my responsibilities.

M: What do you mean? Your job title is the same as before.

W: It's part of the same clause that mentions my salary. The line is
"The employee shall preform any duties in this contract and any other
duties in the scope of business needs." I bright my last contract with
me today. It simplily said that I should perform any duties in my
contract.

M: It's just something that has been added to all new contracts that
we're writing up. we want to make sure that our employee are able to
help out in critical situation.

W: right. But my responsibilities sound farther specific than did in my
last contract. The wording means that the company basically ask us to do
whatever I want.

M: I wouldn't worry about that if I were you. No one is going to ask you
to do something that you aren't comfortable with, Laura.

W: Maybe so. But I cannot accept these terms. Last year Jim from
marketing tried to have me write copy for products, even though I work
in sales. I feel like this wording will cause more situations like this.
So, I'd like it if my contract can keep it original wording.

M: I don't think HR will allow it, since this clause has been added to
all new contracts.

W: I mean it in a nice way possible. But this is non-negotiable for me.
If my new contract can keep wording for original, and I'm afraid I
cannot sign it.

M: OK. I'll talk with HR this thing. Though I cannot make any promise.

W: thanks, Alex. You know that I love working here. But I will feel much
better signing a contract which gives me clear job responsibilities.

M: that's fair. I'll talk to them this week and get back to you with
answer by Friday.

### Part5

Vocabulary

*V/1 Basic Concepts*

Supply and demand are basic concepts of economics. They are two forces
that determine the prices of the goods and services we buy every day.
Being familiar with them can help you better understand the economic
world around you.

**trade**

Trade is the exchange of goods or services between buyers and sellers. A
buyer gives money to a seller in return for a good or service. The price
of a good or service depends on the supply of the seller and the demand
of the buyer.

**supply**

Supply is the quantity of goods or services that sellers have and are
willing to sell. In order for a buyer to purchase a good or service,
there must be supply of it.

**demand**


Demand is the quantity of goods or services that buyers are willing and
able to purchase. In order for a business to sell its products, there
needs to be demand for them.

**market price**

The market price is the price at which something if offered in a
marketplace. If consumers think the price of a product is too high, they
will not want to buy it, so there will be little demand. If the price of
a product is lower than consumers' expectations, it will be sold quickly
at less profit.

**surplus**

A surplus occurs when the supply of a product is higher than the demand.
If seller have a surplus of products, they may lower their prices in
order to sell more.

**shortage**

A shortage occurs when there is not enough supply to meet the demand.
During a shortage, sellers may choose to raise the prices in order to
make more money.

(The price of a good or service depends on how much supply of the seller
provides, and how much the buyer demands. The company is increasing
supply to meet new demand. As consumer income rises, there is usually a
higher demand for high-end products. There was not enough demand for
their products, so they were forced to cut prices. As people start to
eat healthier, the demand for junk food will decrease.

The supermarket had a surplus of pears, so it lowered the price in order
to sell them before they went rotten. At the end of the summer, the
store had a surplus of shorts because they didn't sell well. There's
been a shortage of that toy, so some vendors are selling it for three
times the price. They underestimated demand for their new handbags, so
there was a shortage. )

*V/2 Law of Supply & Demand*

Let's look further into how price affects supply and demand.

**supply and demand curves**

This diagram shows supply and demand curves. The vertical axis
represents the price of a product, and the horizontal axis represents
its quantity. The supply curve shows how the supply of a product is
affected by changes in price. The demand curve shows how the demand for
a product is affected by changes in price.

**the law of supply**

The law of supply states that as the price of a product goes up, supply
will also go up. When the market price is high, sellers will create more
supply because they want to make more money. On the other hand, if the
market price declines, less supply will be created.

**the law of demand**

The law of demand states that as the price of a product goes up, demand
will go down. That's because fewer consumers will want to buy a product
if they think the price is too high. However, if the price goes down,
there will probably be a greater demand.

**price elasticity**

Price elasticity indicates how the demand for a product is affected by
its price. If people buy more or less of a product as its price changes,
the demand for it is elastic. On the other hand, if demand is not
affected by price, it is inelastic. For example, people will pay for
water, even if the price is high, because they need it to survive.

**equilibrium**

Equilibrium occurs when supply and demand in a market are balanced. In
the diagram, it is the point where the demand curve meets the supply
curve. When a market is in equilibrium, there is neither a shortage nor
a surplus. As a result, price become stable.


(The supply curve shows how the quantity supplied by businesses is
affected by changes in price.

Luxury goods violate the law of the demand because people are often
willing to buy them despite their high price. The law of demand states
that demand for a product decreases as its price goes up.

The demand for electricity is inelastic, because people need it to live
regardless of the price. Equilibrium is when the amount of a product
available equals the amount that consumers want to buy. When supply and
demand reach equilibrium, there is neither a surplus nor a shortage. )

*V/3 Related Factors I*

**Market forecast**

A market forecast predicts how well a good or service will sell. Sellers
use market forecast to help determine how much supply to create. If a
forecast is accurate, it will prevent a seller from having a surplus or
shortage of goods or services.

**Opportunity cost**

Opportunity cost is what you must give up in order to do something. If
someone decides to quit their job and go to business school, the
opportunity cost would be losing their income. Companies should consider
the opportunity cost before they decide what to produce or sell.

**Resource costs**

Resource costs reflect what is needed to develop a good or service. They
may include the cost of materials, technology, and labor. When resource
costs go up, goods and services become more expensive to produce, and
the supply is likely to go down.

**Government intervention**

Government intervention is an action taken by the government that
influences the supply or demand of goods and services. A government
could set prices for crops, define manufacturing standards, and adjust
taxes. For example, a government may raise taxes on raw materials from
overseas to encourage companies to buy from domestic suppliers.

**Technology**

Advances in technology can improve the speed and efficiency of producing
goods and services. By reducing the time and resources needed for
production, the supply of a good or service can be increased.

(If an electronics company chooses to build more smartphones, the
opportunity cost is the other devices that could be manufactured
instead. If a market forecast predicts increased demand for yellow
sweaters in the fall, a clothing company will likely produce more yellow
sweaters. The company used market forecast to anticipate demand for its
products. When expending into new product categories, a company should
consider their opportunity cost. Companies should consider the
opportunity cost before they decide what to produce or sell. The company
used market forecast to anticipate demand for its products.

Government intervention is when a government interferes with the supply
or demand of goods or services. A subsidy is a form of government
intervention where money is given to a producer to keep the price of a
product low. A government may intervene to keep industries competitive
or stimulate economic growth. The factory invested in automated
technology to increase the speed of production. When manufacturing
technology is improved, goods can be produced faster, which increase
their supply. )

*V/4 Related Factors II*

**Market size**

Market size is the number of potential buyers and sellers of a good or
service. Usually, the larger the market size, the higher the demand for
goods and services. Companies that are successful domestically may
expand to another country to access more potential buyers.

**Consumer purchasing power**


Consumer purchasing power indicates how much money people have to buy
things. The higher the purchasing power consumers have, the more they
can afford. If consumers in a market have high purchasing power, there
is likely to be higher demand for goods and services.

**Consumer preferences**

Consumer preferences reflect how consumers feel about a good or service.
When there is a change in consumer preferences, there will be a change
in demand. For example, if a fashion brand becomes poplar, there will be
higher demand for it.

**Complementary goods**

Complementary goods are goods that are usually used together, such as
cars and gasoline. If the price of a product is increased, the demand
for its complementary goods is likely to decrease. For example, if the
price of gasoline increases, there will probably be a lower demand for
gasoline cars.

**substitute goods**

Substitute goods are products that fulfill the same consumer need. When
the price of a product goes up, the demand for its substitutes is likely
to increase. If one brand of toothpaste becomes more expensive, demand
for other brands is likely to rise.

(A successful company may expand into another country in order to access
more potential buyers. Many Canadian companies expand their business to
the United States to access more potential buyers.

Market size is the number of potential buyers and sellers of a good or
service. The lower the purchasing

power consumers have, the less money they are likely to spend on goods
they don't need, like luxury items. The higher the purchasing power
consumers have, the more money they are willing to spend on goods they
want. Advertisers try to influence consumer preferences to create more
demand for a good or service. The demand for a product will increase or
decrease depending on consumer preferences. Sugary drinks are becoming
less popular among consumers, so the demand for soda has decreased.

Different brands of soaps are considered substitute goods because they
meet similar consumer need. If

a company raises the price of its products, the demand for its
competitors may increase. If one product is seen as meeting the same
needs as another, they are substitute goods. Substitute goods satisfy
the same consumer needs and may replace one another. If a company raises
the price of its products, the demand for its competitors may increase.
Substitute goods satisfy the same consumer needs and may replace one
another.)

Dialogue\--Driving Demand

W: I'm Rachel wood. And this is TECH TALK from New York city. Today I am
joined by Bob Evans, head of economic research at Cici Taxi. Welcome,
Bob.

M: Thank you Rachel. Very happy to be here.

W: Now, Bob. Since it was founded in 2011, Cici Taxi has been very
successful. But your company has also upset some users with its surge
pricing policy. Can you explain to us what surge pricing is?

M: Surge pricing is when Cici raises driver rates when many people need
a ride at the same time. For example, if there is a concert, the area
will be very crowded afterwards. And when all these people log on the
Cici Taxi app and call for a ride, drive rates will go up. This means
user will pay more money than usual to get a ride.

W: Now why would Cici do this? The policy could be criticized for taking
advantage of users. It's been said that you are charging people more
money when they need rides the most.

M: Well, I can understand why some people may feel that way. But they
need to think about surge

pricing in terms of supply and demand.

W: what do you mean?

M: In the case of Cici, users are on the demand side, and drivers are on
the supply side. When there's heavy demand in an area, a greater supply
of drivers will be needed there. Raising driver rates encourages them to
travel to that specific area. It helps to balance the supply with
increased demand.


W: So Surge pricing gives drivers a financial incentive. If there's not
enough supply to meet demand, users will be waiting longer for a ride.

M: Right. When your supply is people, it's especially important to take
care of them. Otherwise, a competitor will eventually take away your
supply source and slow your growth rate.

W: So you say that the user should stop complaining and accept the surge
pricing policy.

M: No. But the perspective of our drivers should be considered. This is
the reality. Cici do not invent the surge pricing. It's used in many
industries. It's basic in economy principle really.

W: All right. Thank you. Bob. Let's take a break. We'll be back in two
minutes.

