# 商务英语 Level 2
## Unit 1
>
> **Part 1**
>
> **Listening**

**Basic Information 1**

This is John Evans, John is an American. He is a salesperson. He works
for CC Furniture.CC Furniture is a furniture company. Its office is in
Boston.

John sells furniture such as desks and chairs. He sells furniture to
clients. His clients are stores and

businesses. He works in a small team. There are five people in his team.

John often calls his clients. Sometimes he goes on business trips. He
travels to different cities. He travels to meet his clients and sell
furniture.

**Basic Information 2**

This is Emily Wong. Emily is Chinese. She is a secretary. She works for
The Lau Group. The Lau Group is a shipping company. It ships goods all
over the world.

Emily\'s company is a large company. Its main office is in HongKong.3000
employees work there. It

also has offices in Europe and the United States. In total, there are
10,000 employees in the company.

Emily's job is to help her boss. She often answers phone calls and
writes emails. She is always

busy. But she thinks her job is important.

> **Vocabulary**

**A Business Card**

This is Jack Woods.

This is his business card. This is the company name. The company name is
CC Furniture. Jack works for CC Furniture.

This is jack\'s job title.

He is a sales manager.

This is the company\'s address.

It\'s 32 James Street. The company is in Boston.

This is jack\'s phone number.

> It\'s 617-778-0884.

This is jack\'s email address.

His email address is jackwoods\@ccfurniture.com. This is the company
logo. The company logo is blue.

**Workplace & Relationships**


An employee. This woman is an employee of a company. She works for the
company.

An employer. Employees work for an employer. This company has 10,000
employees.

Colleagues. These people are colleagues. They work for the same company.

A customer. This man is a customer of a company. He buys their products
and services.

> **Dialogue**

**Making An Introduction**

M1: Good morning, Jane. This is David. He is our new sales person. Today
is his first day.

M2: Hi, Jane. My name is David. I am from Canada. It\'s nice to meet
you.

W: Hi, David it\'s nice to meet you too. Are you from Toronto?

M2: No, I am from Vancouver.

W1: Cool. So\...do you live far from here?

M2: No, I live pretty close. My house is not far from the big shopping
mall.

W: That\'s really close.

M1: David has a lot of experience in sales, I\'m excited to work with
him.

M2: Thank you. I\'m really happy to be here. This is a great company,
and I\'ll do my best.

**Asking Information**

M1: Hey David, do you have a minute?

M2: Sure, what\'s up?

M1: I need your contact information. Can I have your phone number?

M2: My number is 968-7666.

M1: Thanks. Also, what is your email address?

M2: It\'s David.Brown\@e-mail.com

M1: How do you spell your name?

M2: My first name is David D-A-V-I-D, my last name is Brown B-R-O-W-N.

M1: All right, thanks for the info.

> **Part 2**
>
> **Listening**

**Daily Schedule**

Mary is an employee at a real estate company. This is her daily work
schedule. She goes to work from Monday to Friday. She usually works from
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. She gets up at 7:30 in the morning. She leaves for work
at 8:15.

It takes her around 30 minutes to get to work. Sometimes she takes the
subway. Sometimes she

takes the bus. She usually gets to the office at 8:45.She is never late
for work. Her job starts at 9 a.m.


She always checks her email first. After that, she makes phone calls. At
12:00, she has lunch with her colleagues. After lunch, she usually works
until 3 p.m. Then she usually has a 20-minute coffee break.

She usually leaves work at 5 p.m. But sometimes she needs to work
overtime. On those days, she

has to work until 7 p.m. or later.

**Weekly Schedule**

Yang works at an advertising agency. This is his weekly schedule. On
Mondays, he meets with his boss in the morning. They talk about Yang\'s
work for the week. Their meeting lasts for around 45 minutes. They
usually meet from 10 o\'clock until 10:45.

On Tuesdays and Thursdays, he has meetings with a client, Tiger
Sneakers. They start at 2 o\'clock,

and end at 4 o\'clock. Yang\'s company has many projects with Tiger
Sneakers. They often have a lot to discuss. So the meetings are fairly
long.

On Wednesdays and Fridays, Yang goes to boxing class in the evening.
Yang has a stressful job.

He enjoys boxing because it relaxes him.

On weekends, he usually spend time with his girlfriend. They often go
shopping on Saturdays. On Sundays they usually stay at home. Yang really
enjoys the time with his girlfriend.

> **Vocabulary**

**Office Supplies 1**

A paper clip.

This is a paper clip. A paper clip holds paper together.

A highlighter.

This is a highlighter. People use it to highlight things.

A calculator.

This is a calculator. People use it for math problems.

Scissors. This is a pair of scissors. People use it to cut things such
as paper.

A marker.

This is a marker. People write on a whiteboard with a marker.

**Office Actions 1**

To go to work. People often go to work in the morning.

To get off work. People often get off work in the evening.

To have a meeting. He is having a meeting with his team.

To give a presentation. He is giving a presentation to his team.

To write an e-mail. She is writing an email to her colleague.


> **Dialogue**

**Daily Routine**

W: Hey, Michael. Can you tell me about your workday?

M: Sure, no problem.

W: What time do you get up?

M: I usually get up at 7:00, and leave for work at 8:00.

W: How do you get to work?

M: I take the subway. It takes around 50 minutes. I usually get to the
office at 9:00.

W: What\'s the first thing you do when you get to work?

M: Well, I always check my email first. I usually have a lot of emails.
Then I have a meeting with my team.

W: When do you usually get off work?

M: Well, sometimes I leave it at 6:00, but I often need to stay until
10:00.

W: Why do you stay so late?

M: My company has a lot of clients in Japan. When it is evening here, it
is morning there, so I

usually have to stay late to call them.

W: That\'s tough.

M: Yes, but I make good money. Also, my company has sales offices in
Japan. So I often travel there on business.

W: Wow. Actually, that\'s pretty cool.

M: Yep, I\'m kind of a big deal.

> **Part 3**
>
> **Listening**

**Yesterday\'s Schedule 1**

Eddie is a manager. He works in a large company. This was Eddie\'s
schedule yesterday which was Monday. He woke up at 7 o\'clock. After he
woke up, he ate breakfast and got dressed. He needs to wear formal
clothes to work. So he put on a suit and tie.

At 8 o\'clock, he left the house and drove to work. Usually it takes him
45 minutes to get to work. But

the traffic was heavy yesterday, so it took longer than usual. It took
him 90 minutes to get to work. He arrived at work at 9:30.First, a
checked his email. Then he scheduled a meeting with his team. At 10:15,
He called a client in Beijing. They talked on the phone for an hour.

At 12 o\'clock, he went out for lunch with his colleague, Jill. Jill is
a manager in another department.

Eddie\'s team often works with Jill\'s team on projects. After lunch,
they discussed their latest project. Then they went back to work.

At 3 o\'clock, he had a meeting with his team. It lasted for two hours.
They talked about changes in

the company. They also talked about a new project. After the meeting, he
sent his team an email


about the new project. They will start a new project next week.

**Yesterday\'s Schedule 2**

Eddie got off work at 5:30.He was very tired when he got home. He
didn\'t want to cook dinner. So

he ordered Chinese food.

After he ate dinner, he read a management book. He wants to learn new
ways to manage his team. He also made work schedule for the next day.
Then he watched TV for an hour and a half. He watches TV because it
helps him relax after a busy day.

At 10 o\'clock, he went to bed and fell asleep. Eddie is busy every day.
So he needs to get enough

sleep.

> **Vocabulary**

**Office Supplies 2**

An I.D badge.

This is an I.D badge. He is wearing an I.D. badge.

A folder.

This is a folder. She is putting paper in a folder.

A binder.

This is a binder. He is opening a binder.

A stapler.

This is a stapler. She is using a stapler.

A sticky note.

This is a sticky note. She is putting a sticky note on her computer.

A trash can.

This is a trash can. He is throwing trash into a trash can.

**Office Actions 2**

To print.

Print a document. He is printing a document.

To copy.

Copy a file. She is copying a file.

To type.

Type on a keyboard. He is typing on a keyboard.

To click.

Click a link. To open a link, click on it.

To delete.

Delete a file. To delete a file, move it to the trash.


> **Dialogue**

**Arranging a Time**

W: Good afternoon, may I speak with Bob, please?

M: Good afternoon, this is Bob speaking.

W: Hi, Bob. This is Alice from blacks on computers, I read your resume,
do you have time for an interview?

M: Sure, what time?

W: How about on Tuesday at 10 am?

M: Let me check my schedule. Oh, I\'m sorry, but I have a meeting then.
What about on Thursday at

2 PM?

W: Thursday at 2 pm is fine. Do you know where our office is?

M: I\'m sorry, but I don\'t.

W: My office building is on 28 Green Street, it\'s across the street
from Pats Pizza. We are on the fourth floor.

M: OK, great. See you on Thursday.

W: See you then.

**Leaving a Message**

W: This is SATURN ELECTRONICS. How may I help you?

M: Hello, this is Dan from Blue Networking. May I speak with Mary,
please?

W: I\'m sorry, but Mary is busy at the moment. She is talking with a
customer. May I take a message? M: Yes. Please tell her Dan called, I
need to schedule a meeting with her.

W: Okay. May I have your phone number, please?

M: Sure, it\'s 555-4209.

W: Okay, thanks. So you are Dan from Blue Networking, you want to
schedule a meeting with Mary, and your phone number is 555-4209, is that
right?

M: Yes, that\'s right.

W: Okay, she will have time in the afternoon. She will call you back
then.

M: Okay, thanks a lot.

W: Not a problem. Good bye.

M: Bye.

> **Part 4**
>
> **Listening**

**Office Environment**

John works in this office building. His office is on the 27th floor. In
front of the building is a street,


Snow Street. Across the street is a coffee shop and a bar. John usually
goes to the bar after work. This is john\'s office. In the front of the
offices is the reception area. Behind the reception area is the main
office. There is a conference room in the main office. John often has
meetings in the conference room. He doesn\'t like meetings. His boss
talks too much. He is very boring.

Next to the reception area is a hallway. To the right of the hallway is
a break room. To the left of the

hallway is a copy room. It is at the end of the hall. Employees can
print and copy documents there. There is a subway station about 100
meters from John\'s office. Many employees take the subway to work. But
John doesn\'t take the subway. The commute is too long. He often takes a
taxi to work. A taxi ride is more expensive but faster. And John has a
high salary. So he has enough money to take taxis.

> **Vocabulary**

**An Office**

A conference room.

People have meetings in a conference room.

A copy room.

People prints and copy documents in a copy room.

A break room.

People take breaks in a break room.

A cafeteria.

People eat meals in a cafeteria.

**Places at Work**

An office building.

Office workers often work in an office building.

A factory.

Factory workers work in a factory.

A parking lot.

People park their cars in a parking lot.

An elevator.

They are waiting for an elevator.

An escalator.

She is taking an escalator to the second floor.

> **Dialogue**

**Asking a Directions**

M: Excuse me, I have a meeting with Sarah at 11:30, where is the
conference room?


W: We have several conference rooms, which room is your meeting in?

M: Our meeting is in Room 2F.

W: That\'s not far from here. Turn left from this room, go to the end of
the hall, Room 2F is on the right side of the hall.

M: So, turn left and go to the end of the hall?

W: That\'s right, that you can\'t miss it.The conference room is across
the hall from the break room.

M: Great, thanks.

W: You\'re welcome.

**Comparing Offices**

W: Hey Mad, long time no see you.

M: Hey, Helen.

W: This is your office? It\'s a lot nicer than mine.

M: Really?

W: Yeah. Your office is on the top floor, I can see the whole city from
here. My office is on the fourth floor, and it has fewer windows, so
it\'s much darker.

M: But you work in the city center, so your commute is faster.

W: That\'s true, but your office is much bigger than mine. It has a
cafeteria and a gym.

M: Yeah, there are 300 employees in my company. Your office doesn\'t
have a cafeteria?

W: No, it doesn\'t. It only has a small break room, and there aren\'t
enough chairs, so we always go out for lunch.

M: Oh\... That\'s expensive.

W: Yeah, I spend a lot of money on food.

M: But you have a high salary, so you can spend money on food.

W: Well, money isn\'t everything.

> **Part 5**
>
> **Listening**

**Traveling on Business 1**

Steve is a buyer. He works for a large clothing store in New York. He
buys clothes and shoes for the store. Next week, he is going to the
visit Milan for five days. He is going to meet a supplier first.

Then he is going to visit a shoe factory. He will also go to a fashion
show.

Steve\'s flight will leave at 10 am next Monday. He will arrive in Milan
around 6 pm. He is going to stay at a hotel in the center of the city.
It\'s across the street from an old church.

On Tuesday, Steve is going to meet with Tony. Tony works for a clothing
supplier. It sells suits and

shirts to clothing stores. Tony wants to do business with Steve\'s
store. He will show Steve his company\'s new clothes. If Steve likes
them, he will make an order.


**Traveling on Business 2**

On Wednesday, Steve is going to visit a shoe factory. The factory makes
leather shoes. Last year, Steve ordered 1000 shoes from there. They sold
very well, so he wants to increase his order. He wants to increase his
order to 3000 shoes. He will meet with the factory manager. They will
discuss the size of the order.

On Thursday, Steve will go to a fashion show. There will be many new
clothes and shoes at the

show. Steve will take a lot of pictures of them. He will also think
about what will sell well. In a week, he would place some orders.

Steve will return home on Friday. His fight will leave at 9:45 in the
morning. Steve will check in two

hours before his flight. While he waits, he is going to write a report
about his trip. His flight will arrive at 12:45 in the afternoon. After
he arrives, he will take a taxi to his company.

> **Vocabulary**

**Computer Actions 1**

To open.

Open a file. He is opening a file.

To close.

Close a file. She is closing a file.

To save.

Save a file. He is saving a file.

To attach.

Attach a file. She is attaching a file to an email.

**Places**

An airport.

Airplanes take off and land at an airport. The plane is taking off at
the airport.

A train station.

You can take a train at a train station. He is boarding a train at the
train station.

A Hotel.

Many people stay in a hotel when they travel. She is staying in a hotel.

A bank.

People put their money in a bank. She is putting her money into a bank.

**Travel Actions**

To book.

You can book a ticket or a hotel room. People often book tickets online.


To exchange.

You can exchange money at a bank. You need to exchange money to buy
things in other countries. To check in.

When you arrive at a hotel, you need to check in. If you don\'t check
in, you can\'t go to your room.

To check out.

When you leave a hotel, you need to check out. You need to give back
your room key when you check out.

> **Dialogue**

**A Business Trip**

W: Hi, dear. How was your day?

M: It was good. I am going to visit Munich this week.

W: Oh, when will you leave?

M: I will leave on Thursday morning.

W: That\'s so soon. How long will you be away?

M: I will be away for 3 days.

W: That\'s not very long. Why are you going?

M: Our new client doesn\'t know how to use our company\'s machine. I
need to help them out.

W: What else will you do on your trip? Are you going to go sightseeing?

M: Oh no, I\'m not going to have time. I will have a few meetings, and I
will go out to have dinner with the client too.

W: Are you looking forward to your trip?

M: Yeah, I\'m excited to meet our new client, and I am looking forward
to the dinner, I\'m going to

have so much sausage and beer.

W: Haha, don\'t get you fat.

M: No promises.


## Unit 2
>
> **Part 1**
>
> **Listening**

**Fiona\'s Business Trip**

Fiona is a marketing manager and The Lau Group in Hong Kong. She is in
charge of marketing projects. Next week, Fiona will go on a business
trip. She has an important meeting with a client in Beijing.

First, Fiona needs to buy a ticket. She could take a train to Beijing,
but she could also take flight.

Taking the train is cheaper than flying, but flying is much faster. It
only takes about three hours to fly from Hong Kong to Beijing. If she
takes the train, it will take more than twenty-four hours. Since Fiona
wants a short trip, she will take a plane.

Fiona will also book a hotel room. She can choose between two different
hotels, Hotel Cloud and

Hotel Milton. Hotel Cloud is the newest hotel in the city. It has a big
swimming pool, and its rooms are large and comfortable. Hotel Milton is
older than Hotel Cloud. Its rooms are smaller and it doesn\'t have a
swimming pool. However, Hotel Milton is in the center of the city. It\'s
closer to many restaurants and shops. It\'s also not far from the
client. Fiona wants to stay in a good location. So she thinks Hotel
Milton is a good choice. She will book a room there.

Fiona will also think about what kind of ticket to buy .She could travel
in business class. She could

also travel in economy class. In business class, the seats are usually
bigger. There are also more

in-flight services like free Wi-Fi and champagne. Some Airlines even
offer faster check-ins for business class passengers. But business class
ticket is more expensive. So many people cannot afford it. Economy class
is cheaper than business class. But economy class seats are smaller and
less comfortable. There are fewer services during the flight. The seats
are also closer to each other. So, economy class is not as nice. Fiona
will choose business class because she will be more comfortable. She
thinks being comfortable is more important than saving money. She hopes
she can sleep on the plane.

> **Vocabulary**

**Travel Items**

Boarding pass.

You need a boarding pass to get on a plane. On your boarding pass, you
can find your seat, flight number and gate number. An airport employee
printed her boarding pass at the check-in counter. Train ticket.

You need a train ticket to get on a train. If you lose your train
ticket, you can\'t board the train. He is

showing his train ticket to the train conductor.

Room key.

A room key can be a key or a key card. You need a room key to into your
hotel room. You can get


your room key at hotel reception. She lost her room key, so she asked
reception for another one. Passport.

You need a passport to travel to other countries. To get your boarding
pass, you may need to show

your passport when you check in.

**At the Airport**

Luggage.

Here is some luggage. You may need to check in your luggage before a
flight. After a flight, you can pick up your luggage at the baggage
claim.

Baggage claim.

A baggage claim is where you pick up your bags after a flight. If you
can\'t find your luggage at the baggage claim, it may be lost.

Boarding gate.

A boarding gate is where passengers board their flights. If you are not
at the boarding gate when it closes, you will miss your flight.

Security checkpoint.

Before you go to the boarding gate, you must go through security. When
you go through security, airport employees will check your bags.
Dangerous items are not allowed through security. Check-in counter.

When passengers arrive at the airport, they first need to go to the
check-in counter. At the check-in

counter passengers can get their boarding pass and choose their seat.
It\'s also where they can check-in their luggage.

> **Dialogue**

**Check In**

M: Good evening, how can I help you?

W: Hi, I want to check in to my room. I have a reservation under the
name Alice White.

M: No problem. May I see your passport and credit card?

W: Here you go.

M: You book a single room, is that correct?

W: Yes, that\'s correct. I have a reservation for two nights.

M: Perfect. This is your receipt, and this is the key to your room.

W: Thank you. Also, could you give me a wake-up call at 7 o\'clock
tomorrow? I\'m going to attend a conference, and I don\'t want to be
late.

M: Sure, no problem, we will call you tomorrow morning at 7, enjoy your
stay.

**Missing a Flight**


W: Northeast Airlines at Boston Airport, my name is Sally, how can I
help you?

M: Hi, I am in a taxi on my way to the airport. But the traffic is very
bad. I\'m going to miss my flight. W: May I have your name and flight
number, Sir?

M: My name is Eric Stone. My flight number is NE123. I\'m going to
Chicago.

W: Your flight will leave at 11:30. That\'s in 30 minutes, and the
boarding gate is closing now.

M: Oh\... why me? I have a very important meeting in Chicago tomorrow.
Could I change my flight, please?

W: When is your meeting, Sir?

M: It\'s tomorrow morning at 9 o\'clock.

W: I can put you on another flight to Chicago. It will leave at 3
o\'clock. Would that be okay?

M: That would be perfect. How much will this cost?

W: it won\'t cost anything. It's free.

M: That\'s great, thank you.

W: No problem, Sir. May I please have your passport number?

M: Sure, my passport number is YY684620.

W: Okay, I just changed your reservation. Is there anything else I can
do?

M: No that\'s all. Thank you so much again.

W: No problem, have a safe flight.

> **Part 2**
>
> **Listening**

**Describing Anna\'s Job**

Anna is a test engineer. She works for a large cellphone company called
YG Mobile. Anna has a normal schedule. She works from Monday to Friday.
She needs to arrive at work by 9 am. She usually leaves work at 6 pm.
But she can leave early if she finishes her work before 6 pm.

Anna\'s company has a business casual dress code. She should wear a
skirt or pants, and a blouse

to work. She cannot wear casual clothes like a T-shirt or jeans. But on
Fridays, employees are allowed to wear casual clothes. Anna works on a
large team of engineers. She is responsible for testing the apps on YG
Mobile\'s phones. The apps shouldn\'t have any bugs. So she must test
the apps. She needs to make sure they don\'t have any bugs.

**Describing Jim\'s Job**

Jim is a marketing manager. He works for WeFace, a social media company.
The company is only one year old. It is much smaller than YG Mobile.

Jim\'s schedule is different from Anna\'s. He needs to get to the office
by 10 am. He cannot leave

before 8 pm. And he usually has to work overtime. So he often leaves
much later than 8 pm. WeFace\'s dress code is less formal than YG
Mobile\'s. Jim doesn\'t need to dress business casual to


work. If he wants to, he can wear casual clothes. Actually, he usually
wears a T-shirt and jeans to work.

Jim has more responsibilities than Anna. He must find ways to reach new
customers. He often

works with the sales team to increase sales. He also needs to manage his
team\'s work. He is much busier than Anna.

> **Vocabulary**

**Company Policies**

Dress code.

Employee's clothing must follow their company\'s dress code. Many
companies have a business casual dress code.

Sick leave.

Employees can take sick leave if they get sick. She had a fever, so she
applied for sick leave. Working hours.

These are his working hours. His working hours are from 8:30 until 6:00,
Monday to Friday.

Smoking.

Smoking is not allowed at many offices. If employees want to smoke, they
need to go outside.

**Computer Actions Ⅱ**

To download.

She is downloading a file. You can download apps onto your phone.

To copy.

He is copying something. She copied a video file onto a flash drive.

To paste.

He is pasting some text. Before you can paste something you need to copy
it.

To select

.He is selecting something. Before you can copy something you need to
select it.

> **Dialogue**

**Explaining Policies**

W: Hi, Peter.

M: Hi, Mary.

W: How is your first week of work going?

M: It\'s going really well. I love the job and the team.

W: That\'s great. Are you busy? I want to discuss the office rules with
you.

M: Did I do something wrong?

W: No, no it\'s your first week. I need to discuss the rules with all
new employees.


M: Oh, okay.

W: Let\'s first talk about the working hours. Employees must arrive at
work by 9 am, and they cannot leave work before 6 pm.

M: What if I need to leave earlier?

W: if you need to leave before 6, you should tell me first.

M: I understand.

W: If you feel sick, you should apply for sick leave. You can apply on
our company\'s app, and

please tell me if you cannot come to work.

M: No problem.

W: Now, let\'s talk about the dress code. You don\'t need to wear a suit
and tie.

M: Yeah. It\'s pretty formal.

W: The office dress code is business casual, so you can wear a dress
shirt and dress shoes.

M: Okay, tomorrow I will wear something less formal.

W: But don\'t wear sneakers or jeans. They\'re not allowed. Well, those
are the rules, do you have

any questions?

M: not at the moment.

W: If you do, don\'t be afraid to ask.

M: Sure thing. Thank you for explaining the rules to me.

W: Of course.

**Breaking the Rules**

W1: Good morning, Mary.

W2: Good morning, Anna. Please come in, have a seat. We need to discuss
something.

W1: Sure, what\'s wrong?

W2: Yesterday an employee saw you smoking in the bathroom, is this true?

W1: Well, I\...Emm\... Yes, it\'s true. I\'m really sorry.

W2: Listen. You cannot smoke in the bathroom. It\'s against the rules.
If you want to smoke, you

need to go outside.

W1: I know, I am very sorry. I was stressed and it was raining, I
didn\'t want to go outside.

W2: I understand, but it\'s not okay. I am going to give you a warning,
please don\'t let this happen again.

W1: I promise it won\'t happen again.

> **Part 3**
>
> **Listening**

**An Unusual Day**

Yang had a bad day today. Here\'s what happened. This morning left for
work at 8:30.Usually it


takes him twenty-five minutes to get to work. But today it took 55
minutes. It took longer because

the traffic was worse than usual. As a result, he was late for work.

Yang arrived at work at nine twenty-five. There was a team meeting at
9:15. So he was ten minutes late to the meeting. His manager was not
happy with Yang. She yelled at him in front of the team. The meeting
usually finishes in 45 minutes. But today it took more than an hour.

After the meeting, Yang went to check his email. He usually checks his
email after he gets to work.

However, this morning his computer crashed, and he couldn\'t turn it on.
So he had to call the IT department for help.

Yang usually has lunch at 12 o\'clock. Usually he eats with his
coworkers at restaurant near his

office. But today, Yang had a meeting with a client until 12:30.So he
didn\'t have enough time to eat with his coworkers. Instead, he bought
lunch at a fast food restaurant and ate at his desk. While he ate, he
answered some emails.

On most days, Yang leaves work at 6:00.But today he was given a large
assignment at 5:15.He

couldn\'t leave until he finished it. As a result, he was much later
than usual. Usually on weeknights, he has boxing class. But tonight he
could not go because of work.

Yang didn\'t finish his work until 10:30.As a result, he missed his last
bus home. So he had to take a

taxi. Taking a taxi is usually faster than taking a bus. But the taxi
driver went the wrong way. So it took even longer than taking a bus.
When Yang got home, it was 11:10.He was so tired. He just wanted to take
a shower and go to sleep.

> **Vocabulary**

**Computer Actions 3**

To turn on.

Turn on the computer. To turn on your computer, press the power button.

To turn off.

Turn off the computer. Turn off your computer, click shut down.

To crash.

The computer has crashed. He could do any work because this computer
crashed.

To fix.

The computer is broken and he is trying to fix it. His computer wasn\'t
working and he didn\'t know how to fix it.

To restart.

To restart your computer, you can turn it off and on again.

**Types of Computer File**

A PowerPoint.

This is a PowerPoint file or PPT. You can put text, pictures and videos
in it. People use PowerPoint


to make presentations.

A spreadsheet.

This is a spreadsheet. People use spreadsheets to organize data.

A word document.

This is a word document. People can write reports in a word document.

An audio file.

This is an audio file. When you record audio, you save it as an audio
file.

A video file.

This is a video file. When you record a video, you save it as a video
file.

> **Dialogue**

A Computer Problem

M: Hey, I\'m Rick. I\'m from the IT department, you called about a
computer problem?

W: Hi, Rick. Yeah, I did. My computer isn\'t working, I can\'t turn it
on. Could you help me?

M: Sure, let me take a look. When did you notice your computer wasn\'t
working?

W: I noticed it this morning, when I left work last night, my computer
was still working, but after I got to work today, I couldn\'t turn it
on. It\'s so weird.

M: How often does your computer crash?

W: It doesn\'t crash often. Sometimes I leave it on overnight if I leave
it on. It may crash but it always works again when I restarted it.

M: Hmm...Okay, could you move your desk a little bit, I want to look
behind your computer. Let\'s

see here\... Is your computer working now?

W: Yes, thank you so much, what was wrong with my computer?

M: It wasn\'t plugged it.

W: Oh, my God, I am such an idiot. But why was it my computer plugged
in?

M: Sometimes the janitor and blocks the computer when he is cleaning.

W: Of course, I\'m, sorry for wasting your time.

M: Don\'t worry about it, stuff happens.

> **Part 4**
>
> **Listening**

**Emma\'s Work Experience**

This is Emma Gray. She graduated from UC. Berkeley in 2000 London. She
majored in economics. After graduation, she got her first job. She was
hired by StayFit as sportswear company.

At StayFit, Emma works in the HR department as an assistant. She was
responsible for scheduling

interviews with candidates.

Emma worked at StayFit for six years until 2017.She quit her job because
she thought her job was


boring. She wanted a more interesting job. She also wanted a higher
salary.

Before she left StayFit, she started looking for a new job. It didn\'t
take her long to find one. Within a month, she got a new job with Tiger
Sneakers. She was hired as an HR manager. She got the job because she
had experience.

As an HR. Manager, Emma has many responsibilities. She is responsible
for interviewing and hiring

in new employees. She also manages employee training programs. To do her
job well, she needs good communication skills.

Emma has been at Tiger Sneakers for over a year since 2017.She has
worked very hard, and has

done a very good job. She likes communicating with people, and people
enjoy working with her. She really likes her job, and she's planning to
stay at her company for a long time.

> **Vocabulary**

**Work Progress**

Make a schedule.

When you make a schedule, you can manage your work better. He is making
a schedule.

Behind schedule.

She is behind schedule. If we don\'t finish our work today, we will fall
behind schedule.

Ahead of schedule.

Their team is ahead of schedule. If you have finished your work early,
you are ahead of schedule. On schedule.

The project is on schedule. If you have finished your work on time, you
are on schedule.

Career Development

Get a promotion.

When you get a Promotion, you are given a more important job. He got a
promotion last month.

Quit your job.

If you quit your job, you leave it. She quit her job as an assistant. If
he doesn\'t get a promotion this year, he would quit his job.

Earn a salary.

She earns a good salary. She earns a much higher salary than he does.

Get a raise.

When you get a raise your salary goes up. He got a 20% raise in his
salary.

> **Dialogue**

**Discussing a Promotion**

M: Hi, Kate. Did you have a minute, I\'d like to talk to you about one
of my employees. His name\'s Robert.

W: Sure, Mad. What\'s on your mind?


M: Will, Robert is doing an amazing job. He\'s very responsible, he
finished his assignments ahead

of schedule, and always does good work, I would like to promote him.
Right now, he is the sales associate, but I would like to promote him to
a senior associate.

W: Okay. How long has he been at the company?

M: Well, he has been here for about six months, he joined the company in
April.

W: Hmm\...I can\'t allow it, Mad. Robert sounds great, but employees
need to work for a year, until they can be promoted. That\'s the company
policy.

M: I know. But can\'t we break the rules? I need responsible people on
the senior team.

W: The rules are the rules, Mad, he is not been here long enough, there
is nothing I can do.

M: But Robert has worked really hard. I want to help him now.

W: Well, give him more responsibilities you can promote him in six
months if he still doing well.

M: That\'s good advice. I will do that, and I will let you know how
he\'s doing.

W: Please do.

> **Part 5**
>
> **Listening**

**Introducing Companies 1**

LipSync is an English learning app company. People can use the
company\'s app to study English

on their smart phones. The app offers many interesting courses. Some of
the courses are free and some are paid. Users can study by themselves or
pay extra to meet with online teachers.

The company has established in 2013 in Shanghai, China. It has around
200 full time employees. It

also employs hundreds of part time teachers around the world. However,
many of the teachers only stay for a short time. As a result, whip think
is always looking for new teachers.

Has about 40,000,000 users, and the number is growing. Most of their
users are young white collar

workers. For many users, lip sync is the best way to study English.
That\'s because its causes are well designed. They are also less
expensive than going to classes. As a result, the company\'s profit and
sales are increasing.

**Introducing Companies 2**

J.Hill is a well-known fashion company. It sells clothing and
accessories such as jewelry and handbags. It was established in 1985
more than 30 years ago. J.Hill started with one small store in New York
city. Today it is a large company with stores all over the world.

The company is based in New York. Its head office employs around 600
people. It manages the

business. It\'s also responsible for product design and marketing.

Altogether, the company has 272 stores around the world.260 are in the
US, 7 are in Asia and 5 are in year. Each store employs around 30
people.

Most of J.Hill\'s customers are young people in their twenties and
thirties. Its biggest market is young


women. Last year, 54% of sales were women\'s clothing. Customers like
J.Hill, because its clothes are fashionable and well made. As a result,
its sales and profits are continuing to grow.

> **Vocabulary**

**Basic Accounting Terms**

Cost.

Cars are the money that a company spends. A company should try to keep
their costs low.

Sales.

Sales are the money that a company makes from its products. My company
sells its products, it increases its sales.

Profit.

Which sales are higher than costs there is profit. The company made a
large profit.

Loss.

When cells alone because there is a loss. I company has a loss, it may
lower its costs.

Describing Data

To increase.

When something goes up, it increases. Sales have increased by 15%.

To decrease.

When something goes down, it\'s decreases. Costs have decreased by 10%.

To remain stable.

If something remains stable, it neither increases nor decreases. The
company\'s sales remained stable last year.

To fluctuates.

When something fluctuates it increases and decreases. This chart shows
how much sales are fluctuating.

> **Dialogue**

**A Sales Meeting**

W: Hi, everyone, are you ready to start?

M1: Yep.

W: Okay. Great. I would like to tell you about sales at are three
restaurants from last month.

M1: How did we do?

W: Well, I have good news and bad news. Here is the good news, the sales
from our main restaurant have increased by 10%.

M2: What about our second restaurant?

W: Sales from our second location have remained stable. They are about
as high as last month.

M2: Excellent.


W: But here is the bad news at our newest restaurant sales have
decreased by 7%.

M2: Why have sales decreased?

W: I think it\'s because of the prices, the new restaurant is located in
a busy area with many other restaurants, but its prices are higher than
other restaurants.

M2: Ah, that makes sense, I think we should lower our prices.

W: Yeah, lunch is the restaurant business time, so I want to offer a
special deal at lunch.

M2: What kind of deal?

W: If customers order between 12 pm and 2 pm, they will save 20% on
their meal, and they can get a free drink.

M1: That\'s a great idea, we should try it.

W: Great. We can start next month.

