# 商务英语 Level 4

## Unit 1

**Part 1**

**Vocabulary**

**V/1 Creating a PPT**

**To brainstorm**

To brainstorm means to discuss ideas or ways to solve a problem. Before
you create a PowerPoint

you should brainstorm its main points. You can ask yourself some
questions like: what are the main points that I want to present? What
information will my audience be interested to know? We brainstormed some
ideas to make our presentation more engaging. They brainstormed their
ideas and wrote them on a whiteboard.

**To outline**

To outline somethings means to roughly plan out the points or parts of
it. Once you brainstorm some ideas, you can outline your PowerPoint.
This will help you structure your presentation. After outlining his
PowerPoint, he decided to start his talk by introducing his company.
According to the outline of his PowerPoint, he will analyze possible
threats at the end. He outlined his PowerPoint in great detail. She
outlined five steps of the business strategy in her PowerPoint.

**to structure**

To structure something means to organize or arrange it in a particular
way. After you\'ve outlined your PowerPoint, you need to structure it.
Structuring your PowerPoint allows you to list your main points clearly
and logically. He restructured his PowerPoint and deleted some
unnecessary slides. You need to structure your PowerPoint to connect
your main points.

**to design**

To design something means to decide how it will look. After you have
structured your PowerPoint,

you can begin to design it. When designing a PowerPoint, you should
consider its layout, visuals, and font. People download PowerPoint
templates when they design their slides. The PowerPoint template is
designed by a freelance designer.

**to revise**

To revise something means to change something to improve it. Once you
have finished your

PowerPoint, you may want to revise it. You may be able to make it even
better before you present it. He\'s almost finished his PowerPoint, but
he still has a few slides to revise. He made some minor revisions to his
PowerPoint.

**V/2 PPT Terms**

**Slide**

A slide is a page in a PPT presentation. If you have too much text on a
slide, your audience can get bored. So you should keep your slides
simple with a few bullet points and images.

**Layout**

A layout is the way a PPT slide is designed or arranged. In a layout,
the font, color, and text size

should be consistent. Having a clear layout makes a PPT easy to
understand.

**Template**


A PPT template is a model for creating a PPT. It usually contains
layouts and background designs.

Saving good PPTs as templates allows you to use them again.

**Presenter notes**

Presenter notes is a section below the main slide in a PPT. If you have
extra information you want to

use, you can put it in the notes.

**V/3 Design Principles**

A good PPT should include not only text, but visuals as well. Visuals in
a PPT include images, graphs, animations and So on. Without visuals,
your audience may find your PPT boring. Remember to make

each slide in your PPT simple and clear. The less you have on each
slide, the more your audience can

focus on what you\'re saying. The focus of a presentation should be on
the speaker, not the PPT. So

treat your PPT as a visual aid. When designing a PPT, think about how it
can support and clarify your main points. There should be a clear
connection between your points. To make sure your presentation is
logical, you should first outline your argument.

**V/4 Design Tips**

A visual theme shows the style or design of your PPT. Having a
consistent visual theme makes your

PPT look professional. High- quality graphics are clear and can be
enlarged without becoming blurry.

When a PPT needs to be projected on a large screen, it should use high-
quality images. In a PPT, the color of the text should complement the
color of the slide. Not enough contrast between colors makes the text
difficult to read. But if your colors contrast too much, they can be
unpleasant to look at. A chart is a visual display of information. It
shows information or data as a graph or table. If you have to include a
large amount of information in your PPT, you should use a chart.

**Dialogue \-- Perfecting the PPT**

**W1:** Hey,Any. I\'ve got a favor to ask.

**W2:** Sure Olivia, what is it?

**W1:** I\'m giving a presentation next week, but my PPT looks horrible.
If you could give me some

advice, I will be so grateful.

**W2:** Sure, actually I wanna take a break now, let\'s take a look
together.

**W1:** So, how does my PPT look?

**W2:** Well.It looks a bit messy, you should keep it simple and
consistent. The simpler your PPT looks

the easier it is to understand.

**W1:** Yeah. There\'s too much text on my slides.

**W2:** Right. If you only have a few key phrases in bullet points, it
will engage the audience more.

**W1:** But it\'s hard for me to remember all my points.

**W2:** Then you\'ll have to be familiar with what you present in
practice. Besides, try to use more

images. and graphics. They help support your points, and make your PPT
more interesting.

**W1:** Emmm\...Yeah, a picture is worth 1000 words.

**W2:** Exactly, you also need to have a clear style throughout your
PPT, look at the difference between these slides.

**W1:** Emmm\...Yeah, the amount of text on each slide changes a lot,
and the size of the text is also


different.

**W2:** Yeah, it\'s very important to keep your PPT consistent. Your
presentation needs more structure.

**W1:** What do you mean? I\'ve divided my presentation into several
parts.

**W2:** But it\'s hard to figure out a logical connection between them.

**W1:** Do you have any suggestions?

**W2:** Well, before making a PPT you should outline your presentation,
this means deciding your main points, and considering how they will flow
together. Your audience needs to see where you\'re going.

**W1:** Wow, it seems I\'ve got a lot of work to do, I should have paid
more attention at the first time.

**W2:** Seriously, don\'t stress about it. The important thing is that
now you know enough to make it

better.

**W1:** Thanks so much Any, You\'re a lifesaver.

**Part 2**

**Vocabulary**

**V/1 Preparing a Presentation**

Here are some suggestions on how to prepare for a presentation.

**Define your goals**.

When preparing your presentation, first define your goals. Your goals
are what you want your presentation to achieve. Setting clear goals
ensures your presentation is focused. For example, if you\'re going to
give a sales presentation, your goal would be to persuade people to buy
your product.

**List your key points.**

Once you\'ve defined your goals, you should think of your key points.
Key points are the main ideas of your presentation. Listing them allows
you to see which ones support your goals the best. For example, if
you\'re going to promote a new product, your key points could be the
product\'s new feature.

**Create your slides.**

Once you have defined your goals and key points, you can then create
your slides. In a presentation,

the speaker should use slides as a visual aid. Remember not to put too
much text on your slides.

Good slides support what you\'re saying, but don\'t distract the
audience.

**Anticipate questions.**

After or even during your presentation, the audience will usually want
to ask questions. So you should learn how to anticipate and answer
common questions. For example, at a product launch, the audience will
probably ask for details about product features. So having an in- depth
understanding

of the new product is crucial when preparing for the presentation.

**Rehearse.**

Once you\'ve finished your slides, you should rehearse your
presentation. You can practice in front of

a mirror or with a friend. When practicing, time your rehearsal and
practice several times. This helps

you present smoothly and confidently.


**V/2 Presentation Structure**

A well- structured presentation conveys your ideas and engages your
audience. Here are some

common parts of a presentation.

**Introduction**

The introduction is the start of your presentation. A strong
introduction should grab your audience\'s attention and interest. For
example, you could begin your introduction with an interesting story or
question. Sometimes, you may also explain why you\'re giving your
presentation. But keep your introduction short enough to have time for
your main points.

**Main body.**

After your introduction, you need to smoothly move to the body of your
presentation. The main body

is where you explain and support your key points. In the body of your
talk, your points should flow together logically. You can organize them
by theme or by importance. Remember to have clear transitions from point
to point. You can use transition words such as first of all, then, next,
or finally.

**Conclusion.**

Your conclusion is the final part of your presentation. It is where you
should summarize your key

points and explain why they are important. Do not repeat everything in
the main body or introduce

new information in your conclusion. Your conclusion should be short and
concise.

**Q& A session.**

After you\'ve given your presentation, there will usually be a Q&A
session. This is where your audience asks about your talk. So remember
to prepare answers for common questions beforehand. But if you really
can\'t answer a question, simply say you don\'t know. When there are no
more questions, don\'t forget to finish the presentation with a simple
\"thank you\".

**V/3 Presentation Equipment**

**A microphone**

A microphone is used to make your voice louder. If you are presenting in
a large space, you probably need to use a microphone. Wireless
microphones are ideal for presenters to move around freely. By wearing a
headset microphone, he can demonstrate the product with both hands.

**A remote control**

A remote control is used to control your slide show or computer from a
distance. By using a remote control, you can move your slides back and
forth.

**A laser pointer**

A laser pointer is built into this remote control. His remote control
broke in the middle of his presentation.

**A video adapter**

A video adapter is a plug used to connect your computer to a projector.
You will need it if your

computer isn\'t compatible with the projector. Your laptop only has USB-
C ports, so you need an

adapter to connect to the projector. Can you please find me a Type- C
video adapter? My laptop isn\'t compatible with the projector.

**A handout**

A handout is a document given out during or before a presentation.
Usually, it contains a summary of

the presentation. It may also provide supporting information that\'s not
included in the talk. Before we


move on to our next topic, \|would like you to look at this handout.
Your handout should follow the

same structure of your presentation.

**V/4 Presentation Tips**

Here are some tips on how to deliver a good presentation.

**Project confidence.**

Projecting confidence is the first step to making a good presentation. A
confident speaker is often persuasive and is usually taken more
seriously by an audience. To improve your confidence, you can work on
your posture and voice. Standing up straight and speaking loudly help
convey authority.

**Encourage participation.**

Participation keeps the audience involved and engaged. To encourage
participation, you can ask questions or invite people up on stage. If
you speak like you are reading off a card, the audience will lose
interest.

**Know when to pause.**

Pausing helps create a dramatic effect that draws your audience in. When
you want to emphasize a point, pause after you say it. It signals that
your audience should think about what you just said. You can also pause
after presenting complex information. This gives the audience time to
process it.

**Move naturally.**

Good body language plays an important role in a presentation. Moving
your hands, head, and upper body naturally makes you look confident and
relaxed. However, if you move too much, you may seem nervous.

**Dialogue \-- Presentation Feedback**

**W:** So? What do you think of my presentation?

**M:** Well, it\'s well designed, you also have a good argument, and
your point flow together logically.

**W:** But?

**M:** But\... You need to engage the audience more when you are
speaking, it was like you were

reading off a card.

**W:** Yeah, I\'ve heard that before, do you have any suggestions?

**M:** You should make more eye contact. During your presentation, you
kept looking at the floor. If

you don\'t look comfortable, you won\'t connect the audience.

**W:** I just get so nervous when I speak, it\'s hard for me to keep eye
contact.

**M:** In the beginning, if you get nervous, you can look at their
foreheads instead, but making eye contact is important for a great
presentation. So keep practicing and you\'ll get used to it.

**W:** Alright, I\'ve got a question. How do you look so relaxed when
you present? You look like you\'re

having a real conversation with the audience.

**M:** Well, the first thing I do is practice constantly, I present out
loud again and again until I\'m completely confident, then I visualize
my presentation.

**W:** I\'ve heard about that. Visualizing helps you mentally rehearse
your presentation, right? Does it

really work?

**M:** Yeah, I think it\'s a must. Visualizing help me practice how to
act during a presentation.

**W:** So how do you do it?

**M:** I imagine giving my presentation, and think about what I\'ll do.
For example, I\'ll think about how


to emphasize on important point or make eye contact.

**W:** So you rehearsing a performance like an actor in a movie.

**M:** In a way, yeah. It helps me get more comfortable being on stage.

**W:** I can\'t wait to try it. Thanks so much for your help.

**M:** Of course, I hope it goes well.

**Part 3**

**Vocabulary**

**V/1 Meeting Vocabulary**

**meeting agenda**

A meeting agenda is a list of items that are discussed during a meeting.
To have a well- organized meeting, you should prioritize the agenda
items. Here\'s a print- out of the agenda for the meeting. Have you all
received a copy of the meeting agenda?

**meeting minutes**

Meeting minutes are a set of notes that record decisions made during a
meeting. After a meeting,

you can distribute the meeting minutes to remind people of what was
discussed. Here are the

minutes from our meeting on Friday. Please find the minutes of today\'s
meeting in the attached file.

**action plan**

An action plan lists the steps to take after a decision has been made in
a meeting. Without a clear

action plan, people may not know what to do next. They revised the
action plan to fit the changing

needs of the company. All attendees are required to follow up on the
action plan.

**consensus**

A consensus is an opinion that all members of a group agree with. If
attendees of a meeting don\'t

share a common goal, they probably won\'t reach a consensus. We managed
to reach a consensus on

the budget plan. We were unable to reach a consensus about the marketing
strategy.

**ballot**

A ballot is a system of secret voting. If there\'s an area of
disagreement during a meeting, people can

put it to the ballot. They failed to achieve consensus, so they put the
decision to the ballot. At the end

of the meeting, they held a ballot to decide the issue. All attendees
cast their ballot in secret.

**V/2 Chairing a Meeting Ⅰ**

Here are some tips on how to run an effective meeting.

**State the objective.**

At the beginning of a meeting, you should state the objectives clearly.
It helps everybody understand

the purpose of the meeting. Without a clear objective, attendees of the
meeting may lose focus

easily. Here are some ways to introduce a meeting objective: We\'re here
today to discuss our new marketing strategies. Our aim is to figure out
new promotion strategies.

**Review notes of the last meeting.**

You can use your notes from your last meeting to guide your current one.
You can review previous takeaways before presenting new ideas. You can
review previous takeaways before presenting new


ideas. I\'d like to quickly go through what we decided at yesterday\'s
meeting. Let\'s go over the budget plan from the last meeting.

**Allocate responsibilities.**

It\'s important to keep track of what\'s discussed in the meeting. So
make sure to allocate roles to attendees. For example, you can politely
ask

someone to take notes by saying: \"Would you mind taking the meeting
minutes?\" You could also

inform attendees that someone is responsible for a certain task: Anna
has kindly agreed to be the

time keeper for us.

**Introduce your first agenda item.**

Before you start your meeting, make sure everyone has the meeting
agenda. Then you can present agenda items. You should begin with the
most important item on the agenda. To introduce it, you

can say: Let\'s start with our new marketing strategies. The first item
on the agenda is how to make

our online advertising more effective.

**Close an agenda item.**

After discussing an agenda item, let attendees know that the discussion
should move forward on to

the next item. You can do this with a closing statement. For example,
you can say: Let\'s move on to

the next item. It looks like we've covered the main points of this item.
If no one has anything else to

add, we can continue on to the next item.

**V/3 Chairing a Meeting Ⅱ**

**To invite people to discussion.**

To run an effective meeting, you need to encourage attendees to
participate. To invite others to

express opinions, you could ask questions like: Would you like to share
your thoughts on this topic?

Can we get your input on this issue? What are your thoughts about this
issue?

**To hand over.**

Different attendees may take turns leading a meeting. When handing over
to others to present ideas, you can say: I\'d like to hand over to Anna,
who is going to lead the next point. Alright, now Anna will have the
floor.

**Manage time.**

To have a productive meeting, it\'s important to manage time
effectively. If someone talks for too

long, you can interrupt them politely: We can discuss that at the end if
you feel it\'s important.

I think we have spent enough time on this topic. Let\'s move on to the
next item. Let\'s move on. We

need to make sure we have enough time for the rest of the items.

**Keep the meeting focused.**

As a chairperson, it\'s your job to keep the meeting focused. Time will
be wasted if people bring up unrelated issues. If the discussion begins
to lose focus, remind everyone of the meeting\'s objective. You can say:
We\'re supposed to be discussing our sales campaign. Let\'s not get too
far off- topic here. That\'s a good point but we need to focus on our
agenda items. Perhaps we can add that topic to the agenda of the next
meeting.

**To summarize**.

At the end of a meeting, you should summarize the main points. This can
help attendees understand

the outcomes of the meeting.

You can begin your summary with \"To sum up\" or \" In brief.\" Or you
can say: Before we close today\'s


meeting, let me summarize the main points. Let me quickly go over
today\'s main point.

**V/4 ExpressingYourself**

To better participate in a meeting, you need to let your voice be heard.
Here are some common expressions used when attending a meeting.

**To make suggestions.**

Making suggestions is a good way to contribute to meetings. Normally,
suggestions with \"I suggest\"

and \"We should\" are stronger than those with \"How about\" and
\"Perhaps\". Here are some examples:

\| suggest we improve the user interface of our website. We shouldn\'t
rush into this new campaign.

How about improving the user interface of our website? Perhaps we need
to consider a cheaper

solution as our budget is tight.

**To agree.**

Besides making your own suggestions, you also need to react to others\'
suggestions. You can agree

with people by saying: That\'s just what I was thinking. \| couldn\'t
agree more with Anna. \| have to side

with Anna on this issue.

**To disagree.**

Attendees may have different opinions about a particular issue. Saying
\"I disagree\" directly in a

meeting can be considered impolite. Instead, you can politely disagree
with someone by saying: To

be honest, I\'m not sure about that. I beg to differ, I don\'t think
this is the priority right now. \| see your point, but I don\'t think
advertising on TV is a good idea.

**To ask for clarification**.

If you don\'t understand what people are saying, ask them to clarify
their point. Asking questions early

on can help you avoid making mistakes later. I don\'t quite follow you.
Could you please clarify this for me? I\'m afraid \| don\'t quite
understand what you are getting at. Could you give me some further
clarification, please?

**Dialogue \-- Preparing for a Meeting**

**W:** Hey Dylan, have you booked a room yet for tomorrow\'s meeting?

**M:** Yeah, I\'ve booked a executive comfort room for tomorrow at two
and I\'ve, just finished the

meeting agenda.

**W:** Great. Let\'s go over it now.

**M:** Sure. So first we\'ll discuss organizing research for the new
project, then we\'ll talk about the

progress of our current projects. After that we\'re going to talk about
the new deadlines for the

current projects.

**W:** Well, the items are well chosen, but I\'d switch the order of
them. first have progress, then

deadlines, and then research.

**M:** Okay, but research is a big topic. I thought that by discussing
it first, we could focus all our energy on it.

**W:** Yes. The research is a big topic, but it isn\'t the main
objective. We should start with the most

important item. I want to see how our current projects are going. If
there are any problems, they will need to be discussed first.

**M:** Right, I get it. the process is more efficient that way I\'ll
make the changes right away.


**W:** Thanks. But speaking of research, I\'d still like to talk about
how we should start the new project.

So tell everyone to think of some ideas to brainstorm.

**M:** Sure. I will tell them to prepare.

**W:** By the way, who have you invited to the meeting?

**M:** I\'ve invited our whole team.

**W:** It might be good to invite Kelly, the head of design. Her
designers have been working with us on this project for the past month.
I need to check in on their progress.

**M:** Sure thing. I\'ll send her an invitation right now.

**W:** Hold on. Don\'t just send her an invitation. Confirm her schedule
first. If she can\'t make it, see whether she can send someone.

**M:** Okay. I\'ll go find her now.

**W:** Great, thanks.

**Part 4**

**Vocabulary**

**V/1 Business Lifecycle**

**The seed stage.**

The first stage of a new company is known as the seed stage. During the
seed stage a company's founders seek investments to build their
business. This investment usually support product development, market
research and a business strategy. That company attracted many angel
investors during the seed stage. Their company received impressive seed
stage funding.

**The startup stage.**

In the startup stage a company establishes commercial operations. During
this stage, a company has

a management team, a business plan and a working product or service.
Companies in the startup

stage usually begin earning revenue, but do not make a profit. Venture
capitalists like to invest in

startup companies because of their growth potential.

**The growth stage**.

When a company reaches the growth stage, it begins to make a profit. It
often expands its operations and workforce. During this stage, effective
management and a mature business model are necessary to maintain growth.
Many private equity firms have invested in that company and expect it to
grow quickly. The company enjoyed a rapid growth in sales in its growth
stage.

**The maturity stage.**

A company reaches maturity when it has established a stable percentage
of the market share. At this stage, the company\'s growth rate tends to
be lower than at previous stages. In order to boost growth, a company
may seek to expand into new markets or product categories. For example,
many Chinese smartphone companies in the maturity stage have expanded to
India and Africa. Efficient

management can prolong the maturity stage of a business.

**The decline stage.**

When a business starts to lose market share, it enters the decline
stage. Poor management increased competition and a shrinking market can
cause a company to go into decline. Unless actions are taken, a company
in decline could go out of business. After changing its focus, Microsoft
stopped declining


and tripled its stock price in four years. They implemented a new market
strategy to stop their sales decline. Their sales suffered a huge
decline due to technological changes.

**V/2 Key Company Element**

**Mission statement.**

A company\'s mission statement defines its purpose, goals, and vision. A
good mission statement is

more than just words. A strong mission can motivate employees and
attract new talent. Their mission statement has remained unchanged for
fifty years. Their mission is to empower everyone to achieve their full
potential and become a global citizen.

**Business strategy.**

A business strategy defines how a company will achieve its goals. It is
usually decided by a leadership team that includes the company\'s CEO
and Board of Directors. A business strategy typically covers a period of
three to five years. Frequent changes in business strategy often
indicate a company is unstable. They said that their current decline in
sales would not affect their business strategy. They need an innovative
business strategy to increase revenue.

**Organizational structure.**

An organizational structure determines how activities are directed
within a company. These activities include a company\'s rules,
responsibilities, and job functions. If a company merges with another,
it is likely to experience changes to its organizational structure. The
future organizational structure of the company is still under
discussion. The company adopted a new organizational structure after
being acquired.

**Organizational culture.**

Company culture is a system of shared values and beliefs within an
organization. For example,

Huawei defines its organizational culture as \"wolf- culture.\" It
encourages its employees to work

together, embrace challenges, and be sensitive to market trends. If a
culture does not keep

employees motivated, it may hurt a company\'s productivity. The company
encourages a culture of creativity and free discussion. Its company
culture is centered on the health and well- being of employees.

**V/3 Business Actions**

**To explore the market.**

Before a business enters a market, it will explore it. This means it
will identify opportunities, research competitors, and examine customer
needs in the market. Their active exploration of Asian markets has
proved a huge success.

**To launch products.**

A product launch is when a company introduces a new product to the
market. It typically involves an advertising campaign and making the
product available to purchase. Apple launches always draw a lot of media
attention. The company revealed its new laptop at the launch event.

**To invest in research.**

A company invests in R&D to develop new products and remain competitive.
R&D can be risky

because it involves trying new and untested ideas. Before investing in
R&D, a company should weigh

the potential costs and benefits. The best way for a big company to stay
innovative is to invest in


R&D.

**To collaborate with other businesses.**

Businesses collaborate together when they work on the same project. It
involves sharing resources to achieve a common objective. Good
management and communication are critical for collaboration. Uniqlo has
collaborated with Disney to feature printed T- shirts. The two companies
have been negotiating a collaboration.

**To streamline business processes.**

A business streamlines its processes in order to improve efficiency.
This means simplifying or reducing steps that do not add value.
Complicated business processes can hurt a company\'s productivity. They
streamlined the procedure to cut the delivery time. Management
consulting companies, such as McKinsey, can help streamline business
processes.

**V/4 Company Milestones**

**To establish.**

To establish a company means to start one. It involves making a business
plan, choosing an office,

and applying for permits and licenses. Many Internet entrepreneurs
established their businesses in

their twenties. Many countries provide support for college students to
establish their own businesses.

**To merge.**

When two companies merge, they combine into a larger company. A merger
often happens when

two companies of a similar size agree to enter a partnership. Mergers
allow companies to combine

their resources and increase their market share. Mergers can help
businesses better compete in the international market.

**To acquire.**

To acquire a company means to buy it. An acquisition usually happens
when a larger company

decides to purchase a smaller one. Through an acquisition, the buying
company can acquire new resources and a larger market share. Before an
acquisition, the buying company will analyze how profitable the
acquisition could be. They rejected an acquisition proposal from Apple.
When Microsoft acquired Nokia, tens of thousands of employees lost their
jobs.

**To go public.**

When a company goes public, it transfers ownership from private
individuals to the public. After

going public, a company can trade its shares on the stock market. This
means the company has

access to more capital. But it also means the company will have more
pressure from shareholders to

be profitable. The company went public in September at thirteen dollars
a share. Mars has no

intention to go public.

**To go bankrupt.**

A company that is unable to pay its debts can file for bankruptcy. When
a company goes bankrupt, its assets are sold to pay off its debt. The
company was declared bankrupt by the court. If we fail to recover losses
immediately, we will go bankrupt. Lehman Brothers\' bankruptcy led to an
earthquake

in global markets.

**Dialogue\--A Changing Company**

**W:** Hey, Randy, nice to see you again.


**M:** Hi, Leslie. It\'s been a while. How is going?

**W:** I\'m doing great, you?

**M:** I guess I\'m alright.

**W:** Are you okay?

**M:** Yeah, I\'m fine. It\'s just that there have been some changes in
my company recently.

**W:** Oh, what kind of changes?

**M:** Well, did you know that my company was acquired by Skybest?

**W:** Really? That is a surprise. Why were they interested in your
company?

**M:** They acquired us to get our technology. they are trying to expand
their market share.

**W:** That makes a lot of sense. So you\'re working for Skybest now?

**M:** Yes, but I am still doing the same job.

**W:** How about your team members, what happened to them?

**M:** Well, my former manager chose to leave, but most of the team has
decided to stay for now. Still, one of my older coworkers told me he\'s
worried that he could get fired.

**W:** That must be very hard.

**M:** Yeah, they already brought in a new manager and I don\'t like
him. Sometimes it\'s hard for me to

get my ideas through.

**W:** What do you mean?

**M:** the way decisions are made has changed a lot. It used to be much
easier. my former manager,

and I used to brainstorm, and implement new ideas quickly, but now I
have to do a lot of paperwork,

and go through many procedures.

**W:** I understand. that happens a lot in big companies, some
procedures may seem unnecessary, but they help clarify responsibilities
for each person involved.

**M:** You may be right, but sometimes I feel like I\'m not included in
making decisions.

**W:** Maybe you should talk to your manager about the way you\'re
feeling.

**M:** Do you think that would help? I\'m not good at talking to people.

**W:** At least make your voice heard. communication is key.

**M:** Emmm\...I\'ll think about it. Thank you, Leslie.

**W:** No problem. Should we order now? Waiter.

**Part 5**

**Vocabulary**

**V/1 Company Packages**

**Compensation.**

Compensation is the monetary and non- monetary benefits given to
employees. A typical

compensation package includes a salary bonus and insurance. Some
companies also provide other benefits such as free food and gym
membership. A good compensation plan can improve employee satisfaction.
Before accepting a job offer, you should evaluate its compensation
package carefully. He accepted the job without negotiating a
compensation package. She received a housing allowance as part of her
compensation package.

**Salary.**


A salary is a fixed amount of money paid to employees in return for
their work. It\'s paid regularly,

usually on a monthly basis. If employees \' perform well, they may get
salary raise. He earns an annual salary of \$50000. she did a great job
last quarter, so she got a thirty percent salary increase.

**Bonus.**

A bonus is extra money given to employees in addition to their salary.
Companies often give

employees bonuses to reward good performance. Employees may also get a
bonus before major holidays such as Chinese New Year or Christmas. I'll
buy a new laptop with my year- end bonus. Employees who stay in the
company for more than three years receive a special bonus.

**Insurance.**

Insurance is compensation, provided by a company to employees for
unexpected events. For

example, health insurance pays for employees \' medical costs when they
get sick. Without health insurance, they may be unable to pay their
medical bills. Don't forget to buy travel insurance before you go. Some
treatments are not covered by insurance.

**Benefits.**

Benefits are non cash compensation that employers give to employees.
examples include health insurance, holiday leave and pension plans.
Companies that provide competitive benefits, packages are more likely to
attract employees. Health insurance is part of our employee benefits
package. Paid time off is the most desired type of benefit in our
company.

**V/2 Types of Insurance**

In China, most companies offer a compensation package that includes
monetary benefits and

insurance.

**A pension.**

A pension is a regular amount of money given to an employee upon
retirement. It provides retirees

with reliable income for the rest of their lives.

**Medical insurance.**

Medical insurance covers someone's hospital bills if they gets sick or
injured. Without medical

insurance, a serious illness could cost a lot of money.

**Unemployment insurance.**

Unemployment insurance provides compensation to employees who lose their
jobs. It only

compensates those who are not at fault for losing their jobs.

**Work injury insurance.**

Work injury insurance covers employees who are injured while at work. It
provides financial support

for their medical treatment and expenses.

**Maternity insurance.**

Maternity insurance covers the cost of pregnancy, birth, medical care
for the Newborn. It also covers maternity leave. It\'s a mandatory type
of insurance, which means that all female employees are entitled to it.

**A housing fund.**

A housing fund helps employees pay for their houses. Both the employee
and the employer put a percentage of the employee\'s salary into the
fund. The employee can use the money to cover an initial deposit or pay
back a mortgage.


**V/3 Types of Benefits**

**Wellness program.**

A wellness program is a set of benefits that promote healthier living.
Companies offer wellness

programs to reduce health risks among employees. Common benefits include
gym memberships,

health education and regular medical checkups. The company offers
wellness programs to help employees achieve work- life balance. The
company's wellness program is an important part of its work culture.

**Paid leave.**

Paid leave is time away from work during which an employee receives
their normal salary. Employee often use paid leave when they go on
vacation. It is commonly used when an employee wants to go on vacation.
She took two days of paid leave during the Spring Festival. The company
provides fourteen weeks of paid maternity leave.

**Team building events.**

Team building events are activities organized outside of work by a
company or team. They\'re

intended to bring people together, improve communication and develop a
sense of team spirit. Our company regularly holds team- building events.
According to company regulations, alcohol is prohibited in any kind of
team- building events.

**Training opportunities.**

Training opportunities allow employees to develop new skills at work.
They may include seminars, conferences, online or offline classes. The
company improved employee performance by offering various training
opportunities. We provide training opportunities for employees to
develop their skills.

**Corporate child care.**

Corporate childcare is childcare provided or paid for by an employer. It
reduces the healthcare costs

for employees' children. It can also help employees balance their work
and family lives. Their

corporate child care program has greatly reduced the burden on female
employees. To provide

better corporate child care, they set up an on- site day care center.

**V/4 Employee Satisfaction**

**Keep morale high.**

Employee morale is the sense of well- being and job satisfaction that
employees have it work. Having strong employee morale can build a sense
of team spirit and boost productivity. To keep morale high employers can
run team building events and offer a good compensation packages.
Recognizing employees' achievements often boosts morale. Low employee
morale heavily affects a company's productivity.

**Conduct employee satisfaction surveys.**

Employers can conduct a survey to measure employee satisfaction. Survey
may include a range of questions about employees \' work life. Anonymous
surveys can encourage employees to express themselves honestly. We'll
design a new compensation package based on the employee satisfaction
survey. The company regularly conducts employee satisfaction surveys.

**Provide regular Promotion opportunities.**

Providing employees with opportunities for advancement can increase
morale and loyalty. For

example, employees \' are more likely to stay at a company if they know
they can be promoted. His


company offers each employee equal promotion opportunities. Several
female employees

complained about unequal promotion opportunities.

**Reduce employee turnover.**

Turnover is the rate at which employees leave company and are replaced
by new ones. Having a high turnover rate could mean a company is not
doing enough to keep employees happy. He rejected the company's offer
due to its high turnover rate. Its employee turnover rate has been below
five percent since last year. Regular promotion opportunities lead to
lower employee turnover.

**Dialogue Comparing Job Offers**

**W:** Hi, Alex, guess what? I just got another job offer.

**M:** Congratulations, Stella. What\'s the company?

**W:** There are startup called Brain Spark. they make computer games.

**M:** That sounds exciting. So what are they offering you?

**W:** Well, they offered me a one year contract at 28,000 dollars a
year. They are also offering me

some stock options and health insurance too. HRwill email me with more
details later today.

**M:** Sounds interesting. But the offer you got yesterday had a much
higher salary, right?

**W:** Yeah. This other company is giving me a 40,000 dollars salary,
they provide full house insurance

and 15 days annual paid leave. And they also provide an employee
training program throughout the year.

**M:** Well. I think this is a better offer. Why haven\'t you accepted
it yet?

**W:** I\'m not sure if it\'s a good fit for me. it\'s a large
corporation, so there is more structure. I\'m afraid there won't be many
opportunities for personal development.

**M:** Sure, large companies are more bureaucratic. Are you really going
to take Brain Spark\'s offer?

**W:** I\'m very tempted, they have a smaller team, I can have hands- on
experience with different

aspects of the business there. Most importantly, I believe they are a
company with great potential. Maybe they can even go public in a few
years. who knows?

**M:** Yeah, the most stock options they\'re offering you can worth
something. But for now ,I think you

should hear more about the benefits before you make a decision. Just
make sure working there is

really worth it.

**W:** I will, thanks for your advice, I\'ll call you when I get the
email from HR.

**M:** Cool. Talk to you soon.

**W:** Bye for now.

## Unit 2

**Part 1**

**Vocabulary**

**V/1 Before Development**

Developing a product can be challenging. It requires a practical idea,
thorough analysis and plenty of time and resources. Careful preparation
is the first step to develop a product successfully.


**Generate ideas**.

Product development starts by generating ideas. This involves
brainstorming possible new products

and features. Good ideas come from knowledge of the consumer, the market
and current technology.

**Conduct concept screening research.**

Next, select the best idea through concept screening research. Find out
if the product would meet customers \' needs, and identify the gaps in
the market. You also need to determine how to position your products to
give it an advantage.

**Carry out competitive research.**

Then carry out in depth, competitive research. Identify and assess the
strengths, and weaknesses of competitors within your market. This allows
you to develop different strategies to give your product a competitive
advantage.

**Carry out a risk assessment.**

As you conduct your research, you should do a risk assessment. Identify
the potential risks and how

they would impact your product. This include technical problems,
financial risk and operational difficulties.

**Plan actions.**

Finally plan a path forward by determining your next course of action.
Set parameters include budget, objectives and time frame. Once you are
prepared, you can implement your plan.

**V/2 Developing a Product**

Transforming ideas into saleable products is a challenge.

**Build the prototype.**

Starting by building a prototype of your product. A prototype is the
first version of a product, and it is used to develop its future forms.
Building a prototype helps you estimate the development costs,

time frame and resources needed.

**Text the prototype.**

Once a prototype has been built, it should be tested to evaluate the
quality of its design. Feedback by

its appearance, function, and user friendliness can be collected from
potential customers.

**Improve the prototype.**

A prototype should be improved based on its feedback. Once its regional
issues have been fixed and another round of testing will be conducted.
The testing will continue until the product is ready for the market.

**Develop marketing strategies.**

When the product is ready, it will be made available for sale. A company
would develop a strategy to build demand for its product. This may
include a launch event, advertisements and social media marketing.

**Monitor the product.**

After the product is launched, a company monitors how the product
performs in the market. Sales figures, profitability and customers
feedback should be monitored. For their more expect changes in the
market, and always be prepared to improve your product.


**V/3 Product Lifecycle**

**Products lifecycle.**

a product life cycle is the four stages of a product\'s life. Each stage
has its own unique characteristics

and challenges.

**The market introduction stage.**

The first stage is the market introduction stage. At this point, a new
product has just been launched

and its market share may be small. Businesses can invest in marketing
and Promotion to build

demand.

**The growth stage.**

Products that make it through the introduction stage reached the growth
stage. In the growth stage, product sales grow as consumer demand
increases. As a result, competition may increase as more businesses look
to share the market. Companies often need to update their products to
stay competitive.

**The maturity stage.**

In maturity stage, the market becomes crowded due to fewer new customers
and stronger

competition. As a result, sales growth peaks and begins to slow down. At
this point, a business

may lower its prices or explore new markets to increase sales.

**The decline stage.**

In the decline stage product sales decrease as competition becomes
stronger. Since the popularity of

a product falls making a profit becomes more difficult. As a result, a
business may cut production

costs or discontinue the product.

**V/4 Improving a Product**

Improving products allows businesses to stay competitive, and increase
their market share. Here is

some advice for improving products successfully.

**Collect customer feedback.**

Customer feedback can be used to find out how to improve a product. It
can be collected through customer questionnaires or interviews. Feedback
can help measure customer satisfaction and discover problem.

**Conduct a lost customer analysis.**

A lost customer analysis examines why customers have stopped buying the
products. The results can

be used to eliminate sources of customer dissatisfaction. For example,
people may stop eating a

certain brand of food because of negative publicity.

**Carry out a cost benefit analysis.**

A cost benefit analysis compares the cost of a project against its
potential benefits. Benefits may

include increased revenue or faster production. If a project\'s costs
are higher than its benefits, it may

not be worthwhile.

**Run tests.**

Testing is a major step, both in product design and improvement.
Frequent tests determine whether a product is performing well. After a
product has been developed, it will be tested to ensure it\'s quality.


**Dialogue \--Interview an App**

**M:** Hey, Heather, you want to see me?

**W:** Hey, Jim. Yeah, I did. I just got the user data from the latest
testing version of FitBot. I thought

you would want to see it.

**M:** Oh, definitely. Have you found anything interesting?

**W:** Well, it seems the user engagement rate is not as high as we\'d
like it to be. Look over here. It\'s

been found many users stop using our app after a couple of tries.

**M:** So they don\'t feel motivated to keep using it. Why do you think
that might be?

**W:** Well. According to the feedback, our users like how app tracks,
how far they have run. But they don\'t think it\'s a strong enough
reason to keep on using it. I feel that the app doesn\'t have enough
functions to keep users engaged.

**M:** Do you have any ideas on how to go forward?

**W:** We could improve how users track their progress, rather than just
listing the amount of time

they've ran. We could let them set challenges. For example, users could
set weekly or monthly fitness challenges, and we could try to quantify
their progress by using progress bars. That way, they can use our app to
realize their fitness goals, rather than only logging their results.

**M:** I like that idea, and we could allow users to share their
progress on social media like me- chat. By sharing it online, they can
get encouragement from their friends.

**W:** Yeah, adding a social component is a great idea.

**M:** Could you have a proposal made for me by Friday? I have a meeting
with the CEO, and would

like to share these ideas with him.

**W:** Yes, I\'ll get started on it today.

**M:** Great. Make sure doing include a cost benefit analysis in your
proposal. If I\'m going to get this Approved. I\'ll need to show that
the return will be worth the investment.

**W:** Sure thing, will do.

**Part 2**

**Vocabulary**

**V/1 During an Interview**

Interviews are meant to find someone who is a good fit for a job. Here
are some basic steps to follow when conducting an interview.

**Build rapport.**

Begin the interview by building rapport with the candidate. When a
candidate is relaxed, they usually express themselves more honestly. A
warm greeting and some small talk can make the candidate feel
comfortable. For example, you can say " it's a pleasure to meet you. How
was your weekend ?"

**Observe non- verbal cues.**

Observe the candidate's body language and facial expressions. Nonverbal
cues may reveal how the candidate feels. For example, if a candidate
blinks often, it may suggest they're very nervous.

**Leave time for questions.**

Near the end of the interview, leave time for a candidate to ask
questions. For example, you can ask,"

do you have any questions for me?" or "Have you got any questions for
us?" what the candidate asks


can reveal how interested they are in the position. If they don\'t have
any questions, they may not be interested in the job.

**Explain what to do next.**

At the end of interview, explain the next steps in the hiring process.
Let the candidate know when you

will contact them again. For example, you can say," Thank you for coming
in. We will get back to you within two weeks." Finally, thank them for
their time and walked them to the door.

**V/2 After an Interview**

Here are some tips for what to do after an interview.

**Assess the candidate.**

Assess whether the candidate meets the hiring criteria. You should
consider their skills, experience,

and attitude. If a candidate does not meet any of the criteria, they
won't make a good hire.

**Perform a background check.**

When considering a candidate, perform a background check on them. A
background check examines

a person's professional and educational history. It confirms that they
have provided accurate

information on the resume.

**Make an offer.**

If a candidate meets the job's requirements, you can make them an offer.
A job offer is an invitation

for a candidate to become an employee in a company. A formal job offer
includes information about salary, benefits and starting day.

**Follow up on time.**

Follow up with candidates on time. If you take too long to contact a
strong candidate, they may find another job. If you wait too long to
reject the candidate, they may think you\'re unprofessional.

**V/3 Soft Skills**

When evaluating a candidate, it\'s important to consider their soft
skills. These reflect how they

approach their challenges, as well as how they interact with others.
Here are some soft skills to look

for.

**Problem- solving skills.**

Problem soft skills involves identifying problems and developing
solutions. To access this skills you

can ask a candidate about a challenge they overcame at a previous job.
For example, what was the

best idea you proposed at your last job. What has been your biggest
achievement to date?

**Communication skills.**

Communication skills reflect how well you express yourself and interact
with others. To assess the

skills you can watch how our candidate engages with you during an
interview. Observe how they

speak and how well they listen.

**Teamwork skills.**

Employees with teamwork skills have a strong sense of group
responsibility and collaborate well with others. To assess a candidate's
teamwork skills, you can ask questions like "what role have you played
in your last team?" or you can ask " Please describe a time you worked
well as a team member."

**Creative thinking skills.**

Creativity is the ability to come up with new and original ideas.
Employees with creative thinking skills


can think outside the box and find unique solutions to problems. To know
more about a candidate's creative thinking skills, you can ask "what is
the most creative idea you came up with at your last job?" or you can
ask,＂tell me about a problem you solved in an innovative way."

**V/4 Interview Tips**

Here are some tips for how to conduct a productive interview.

**Prepare.**

Prepare thoroughly before an interview. Review the candidates resume and
cover letter to learn

about their work history and the experience. Prepare questions that
relate to their resume and the position they are applying for.

**Use similar questions to evaluate candidates.**

When interviewing different candidates ask similar questions. This
creates a standard to compare candidates against. If you ask each
candidate different questions, it may be hard to assess their responses.

**Take notes**.

Taking notes helps you remember the details of an interview. But taking
notes can feel impersonal or even unfriendly. So when the interview
begins, you should tell the candidate why you're taking notes.
Otherwise, they may feel nervous.

**Let the candidates speak.**

Do not dominate the interview. Candidates need more opportunity to
present their qualifications and skills. Some experts say that the
interviewer should speak 20%of the time or less.

**Dialogue \-- Interview an Candidate**

**M:** Hi, Sara, I am Adam. I\'m the marketing manager at Greenly
Organic Delivery.

**W:** Hi, Adam. Nice to meet you.

**M:** Please, have seat. So tell me a little bit about yourself.

**W:** Yes, I graduated from college in May, where I majored in
environmental science. I\'m currently

doing a summer internship at an organization called Heart Healthy
schools. they work with local

farms to help arrange organic lunches for city schools. But my
internship will end in two months, so

I\'m starting to look for full time jobs now.

**M:** So why are you interested in Greenly Organic Delivery?

**W:** While I love Greenly's mission to work only with local organic
farms like HHS. Greenly is also tech company with more opportunities and
social media, which is what I want to do. I think Greenly offers more
potential to grow.

**M:** Thank you, but how do your experience transfers it over to a
position of social media marketer. It says here you update the fish
account for HHS. But social media is also about analytic. Do you have
any experience analyzing social media activity?

**W:** Yes, I do. When I started college, I found a website, and blog
called the Student Farmer. I have

now grown my site to around 800 daily visitors through social media. So
I am familiar with both

writing for an audience and analyzing data to grow an audience.

**M:** Very impressive. I can see that you\'re a very proactive and
driven person. But tell me where do

you think you need to improve?


**W:** I think there\'s a lot more I need to learn. Working in HHShas
been a positive step forward. But

most of my experience so far has come from personal projects.

**M:** Right, social media marketing at Greenly has more consideration
than your site.

**W:** Yes. That\'s true, but at the same time, I am not afraid to
learn. I am open to challenges and I

learn fast.

**M:** Well, that\'s very nice to hear. before I bring in our HRmanager,
do you have any questions?

**W:** What qualities are you looking for in candidates for this
position?

**M:** I\'m understanding of analytics is a must as are good writing
skills. But we also need people who

are driven and passionate, like you. Do you have more questions?

**W:** No, that\'s all, thank you.

**M:** Okay, it was great speaking with you, Sarah.

**W:** It was nice speaking with you, too, Adam. Thank you.

**Part 3**

**Vocabulary**

**V/1 Preparing for an Event**

Attending networking events is a great way to help your career. It can
help you find a

new job meet, business partners or learn about industry trends. But if
you want to get the most at this event, you should prepare beforehand.

**Set a goal.**

Set a goal for what you aim to achieve at the event. It should be the
specific and reasonable. For example, your goal could be exchanging
cards with five people. Having a clear goal will prevent you from
wandering aimlessly at the event.

**Wear appropriate clothing.**

Wear appropriate clothing to the event. Most networking events require
you to wear business casual clothing. The right cloth will give people a
positive impression and make you feel more confident.

**Bring business cards.**

Business cards are a branding tool and help people remember you. So
bring professional and up- to- date business cards.

**Prepare conversation points.**

Prepare some key points about your business, as well as questions you
want to ask people. You can

also prepare a few icebreakers to start conversations. For example, you
can ask general questions,

such as how someone feels about the event. Hi, I'm not sure if we've
met. I am Jeff from CC Furniture. How do you like the event? It has been
great! I'm Linda, Head Designer of Nick Spade. Nice to meet you.

**V/2 How to Behave**

Here are some tips on how to behave at a networking event.

**Give a concise self introduction.**

When meeting new people, giving a concise self introduction.You should
mention where you work


and what you do. But do not to talk about yourself too much. What do you
do, Jeff? I'm in charge of sales at CC Furniture. We provide one- stop
service for customers who want home renovation.

**Show interest in other people**

When talking to someone, show that you're interested in what they're
saying. You can do this by maintaining eye contact and facing them
directly. And you can ask questions that encourage them to talk about
themselves. That sounds interesting. Could you tell me more about the
project you just mentioned? Sure, we are seeking local partners right
now, if you are interested.

**Find things in common.**

When talking to people, look for shared interests, experiences or
connection. Finding common

interests sets a strong foundation for creating a business relationship.
How did you hear about this event? The speaker, Jenny, invited me. Me
too. Jenny and I used to work together.

**Reach out to your contacts**

After the event, getting in touch with your new contacts. Send an email
or connect on social media.

For example, you could write," it was nice meeting you last night. You
mentioned you were interested

in our services. Please let me know if you need more information." it's
best to contact people within

24 hours of the meeting them.

**V/3 Common Mistakes**

Here are some mistakes people make at networking events and tips on how
to avoid them.

**Don\'t dominate the conversation.**

Networking is about developing mutually beneficial relationships. So
don\'t talk about yourself all the time. By listening, you will not only
gain more information about others but also make them feel valued.

**End conversations politely.**

If you end a conversation abruptly, people may think you are rude. You
can politely end the

conversation by telling someone that it was nice to meet them. For
example, "it was great talking to

you, but I really need to say hello to a few other people. Talk to you
soon."

**Don\'t drink too much.**

Most networking events provide alcohol, but you should avoid drinking
too much. It\'s generally

better to limit yourself to one or two drinks at the very most.

**Reach out to new people.**

It's normal to feel nervous at networking events, but reach out to new
people. When meeting

someone new, you can appear confident with strong eye contact and a firm
handshake.

**V/4 Networking Tips**

Here are some tips to help you interact with people at networking
events.

**Give a firm handshake.**

When you meet someone for the first time, give a firm handshake. Avoid
gripping their hands too

loosely or squeezing it too hard.

**Remember people\'s name.**

It can be hard to remember the names of everyone you meet at a
networking event. One way to do

this is to repeat someone\'s name after they tell it to you. And when
you get their business card, you


can write something on it to help you remember them.

**Keep an open posture.**

Keep an open pasture in order to appear friendly and approachable. This
means you should keep

your back straight and avoid crossing your arms. A closed posture can
show shyness or

unfriendliness.

**Be brief.**

It\'s good to begin a conversation with small talk, but don\'t take too
long to get to the point. People

lose interest quickly, so be specific and avoid giving too many details.

**Maintain your social media profile.**

Your social media profile is an essential networking tool. Like your
business card, it shows your

personal brand. After an event, people may look at your social media
profile to learn about your professional skills and experiences. So make
sure that it is updated and reflects the best side of yourself.

**Dialogue\--Advice on Networking**

**M1:** Hey, Chris, how\'s your networking tonight?

**M2:** Ah\...Not so good. How did your sales conference go?

**M1:** Pretty great. I met around 20 really cool people, including the
head of sales at this company

called Black Sun Software, and now I\'m following through with a few
thank you emails.

**M2:** Wow, you're like networking ninja! I wish I could have done half
as well as you. I gave out my business cards and told people what I do.
But no one seemed very interested.

**M1:** It sounds like you spent the whole time focusing on yourself.

**M2:** I thought that\'s what I was supposed to do at a networking
event. Having people get to know

me.

**M1:** No way, networking is about building relationships with people.

**M2:** You\'re right, but how do you engage with people? Every time I
tried to start a conversation, it

didn\'t go anywhere.

**M1:** I think you need to prepare a short introduction and
conversation starters. That way you can

focus more on listening than thinking of what to say.

**M2:** I see what you\'re saying, I should jump into the conversation
quickly and start asking questions.

**M1:** Exactly, if you show genuine interest in other people, they will
soon show interest in you.

**M2:** By the way, do you have any advice on how to end a conversation.
When I was talking to people

we just rambled on until someone left, it was a little awkward.

**M1:** Practice enclosures, like \"It\'s been so great talking to you,
but I promise to meet someone in five minutes, so here\'s my card.
Let\'s talk soon. \"I like to make a brief, meaningful connection and
then follow up later.

**M2:** Well, this has been a very interesting conversation. I had no
idea networking was serious. You

make it sound like speed dating.

**M1:** Pretty much. though with twice the working, half the fun.


**Part 4**

**Vocabulary**

**V/1 How to Behave at Work**

A first impression reveals only a small part of who you are, but it can
determine how people think

about you. When you make a good impression, people will be more open to
working with you.

**Have a good office etiquette.**

Office etiquette refers to how well you behave in the office. This
involves keeping your desk clean,

being polite and respecting your coworkers. Having proper office
etiquette will help you make a good impression on people.

**Take responsibility for mistake.**

How you handle a mistake will influence your manager's opinion of you.
When you make a mistake, don't ignore the problem, placed the blame on
others or try to hide it. Instead, take responsibility and find a
solution to it. Facing up to problems shows you have a positive
attitude.

**Manage your time.**

People with good time management skills know how to divide their time
between tasks. Keeping a schedule and setting priorities can help you
stay organized and avoid wasting time.

**Take the initiative.**

When you take the initiative, it shows that you can work without being
told what to do. When you

finish an assignment, show you are willing to shoulder more
responsibilities. Take the initiative and

ask for more work. It not only shows you are proactive but also gives
you the confidence to lead.

**Be a team player.**

Many businesses today are structured around teams, so it\'s important to
be a team player. Helping

your colleagues and working together builds team spirit. If you're a new
employee, learning your co- worker's name quickly shows that you're
interested in getting to know them.

**V/2 Body Language**

Body language can have a great impact on what others think of you. Here
are some examples of

good body language.

**Have a good posture.**

To have good posture means to stand or sit up straight with your
shoulders back and head up. It

makes you appear more confident and professional. On the other hand, a
hunched back or slumped shoulders can make you look lazy and unsure of
yourself.

**Uncross your arms.**

When you are talking to someone, crossing your arms can make you look
defensive or closed- off. It

may also make people feel as if you are bored or indifferent. So
maintain an open stance when

talking to people. This shows that you are relaxed and willing to
listen.

**Maintain eye contact.**

Maintaining eye contact shows that you\'re interested in what someone is
saying. Avoiding eye

contact may make you seem timid or uninterested. However, if you stare
at someone for too long,

they may feel uncomfortable. You can look away whenever there is a pause
in the conversation, but


never look down. Looking down shows a lack of confidence.

**Reduce nervous habits.**

People tend to engage in some nervous habits when they feel
uncomfortable. Typical nervous habits include biting your nails or
playing with your hair. These habits are often considered annoying or
distracting. And it takes conscious effort to quit them. But once you do
, you'll appear more confident and relaxed in social situations.

**V/3 Negative Impression**

Here are some behaviors that can give a negative impression at work.

**Making assumptions.**

To make assumptions means to think something is true without confirming
it. When you aren't sure about a task, don\'t make assumptions. Instead
ask someone to clarify it.

**Being messy**.

Messy employees often find it difficult to maintain a clean workplace or
personal appearance. This

often leaves an impression that they can't organize their work. So it's
important to keep your desk

neat and tidy. This builds a good personal image at work.

**Asking personal questions.**

Asking personal questions can make people uncomfortable. So avoid asking
about your colleague\'s salary or romantic relationships. If you want to
start a conversation with your co- worker, talk about your hobbies or
other less personal subjects. .

**Gossiping.**

To gossip means to spread private information that may not be true.
Office gossip can be

entertaining, but it can cause conflict among employees. If you gossip
at work, people may think you

are not trustworthy. And you may leave an impression that you are not
focused o your work.

**V/4 Positive Impression**

Here are some behaviors that can give a positive impression at work.

**Be positive.**

To be positive means to have an optimistic attitude. People who are
positive focus on solutions rather than complaining about problems. He
always maintains a positive attitude. No matter how tough the situation
is, he always keep a positive mindset.

**Be reliable.**

To be reliable means that you can be depended on to do your job. If you
are reliable, you can be

trusted with big responsibilities. She always keeps her promises, so her
boss thinks she's reliable. Unreliable employee often make mistakes and
ultimately hurt productivity.

**Be appreciative.**

Be appreciative of your colleagues at work. This means to show that you
are thankful when they help you. To show your appreciation, you can say
something like: " I really appreciate you helping me out on this
project." Showing your appreciation to your co- workers often helps to
maintain a good relationship with them.

**Be committed**

To be committed to something means to give a lot of time and effort to
it. Committed employee


work hard to do their work well and on time. He is fully committed to
improving his team's work efficiency. He has shown great commitment to
his job since he was hired.

**Dialogue \--First Impression**

**W1:** So you two joined our team not so long ago. Right?

**W2:** Yeah, we both joined two weeks ago.

**W1:** How are you finding it?

**W2:** The environment here is so fast- paced. Since I joined in the
company, I\'ve already written promotional materials, prepared a PPT
presentation and helped on a research project. There\'s been a lot to
learn, but I\'m really happy to be here.

**W1:** I\'m glad you like it so much. I remember when I first joined
the company I felt the same way. And

now, our team is even busier than before.

**W2:** Yeah, it\'s been challenging, I made a few mistakes on my last
assignment, and I had to work late

all week. But the work I\'ve been doing is really interesting. I just
want to do a good job.

**W1:** While, the most important thing is that you keep improving, and
you\'ve got the right attitude. remember our team works hard, but we
play harder.

**M:** Of course we work hard. we have to work so late every night. Has
our boss even heard of work

life balance?

**W1:** Working late can be tough. But there are a lot of important
deadlines coming up. We all have to

do our part.

**M:** Yeah, and I\'ve done my work well. It\'s just that our manager
can\'t see things from my

perspective. If he could, he would see that I\'ve done a good job.

**W2:** Well, even if you think that\'s true, you should keep an open
mind. we still don\'t know as much as

we think. We\'ve just been here for two weeks.

**M:** If our manager shows me that he can respect my ideas, then I\'ll
keep an open mind.

**W1:** Well, I have to get back to work. It was really nice chatting
with you guys. Keep it up, Alyssa.

**W2:** Parry, you should watch what you say around Jesse. she\'s been
with the company for a while and likes it here. you don\'t want to give
people the wrong impression.

**M:** Whatever, I say what I want to say, and I don\'t care who knows
it.

**Part 5**

**Vocabulary**

**V/1 Giving Feedback**

Knowing how to give effective feedback is critical in the business
world. Here is some advice to remember when giving feedback to an
employee.

**Be prepared**

Before delivering feedback think of the main points you want to discuss.
Your feedback should

improve a situation or an employee's performance. So make sure your key
points are constructive an focused on improvement. You may also want to
write down your points down in case you miss anything important.


**Begin with the positive.**

Begin feedback by talking about what an employee has done well. People
are often willing to accept critical feedback after hearing something
positive. Here are some examples of positive feedback. I really
appreciate your contribution to our team. Your suggestion on improving
our workflow has been very helpful.

**Be specific.**

When giving a feedback, offer specific example of an employee's
behavior. For example: you've been behind schedule lately. The deadline
of your article was last Friday, but you haven't finished it yet.
Without specific examples, it may be difficult to support your feedback.

**Explain the consequences**

Sometimes people don't know the consequences of their behavior. So you
should give examples of

how the employee's actions have impacted others. This help them see the
situation from your point

of view. For example: you didn't meet the deadline. As a result, our
whole project has been delayed. Please double check your work. People
have been making corrections for you, and it's adding to their workload.

**Encourage the employee to respond**

After delivering the feedback, allow employees to respond. This can make
them feel more involved.

For example, you can say: those are my suggestions for you. What are
your thoughts?

**Be supportive**

Be supportive of the employee throughout your feedback. This shows them
that you want them to succeed. If an employee feels criticized, they may
not be motivated to improve. One way to be supportive is to offer
constructive suggestions. For example: it seems you have trouble with
time management. I think you can consult the training and development
team for some advice.

**V/2 Effective Feedback**

Effective feedback has certain characteristics.

**Balanced.**

Balanced feedback evaluates an employees \' overall performance. It
recognizes an employees \'

strengths as well as their weaknesses. This prevents an employee from
feeling attached, which allows them to accept feedback more easily.

**Timely.**

Feedback is most effective when given on time. If you wait too long to
give positive feedback,

employees may feel their work is not recognized. If your feedback is
meant to solve a problem,

delaying it could create even more issues.

**Constructive.**

Constructive feedback focuses on finding solutions rather than problems.
It lets employees know how they're performing and what they're
performing and what they're expected to do. Unconstructive feedback is
more likely to cause conflicts than improve a situation.

**Objective.**

Objective feedback is based on facts rather than feelings or opinions.
Therefore, it's easier for

employee to accept. If your feedback is too personal, an employee may
think it's unfair and become defensive.


**V/3 Receiving Feedback**

Here is some advice and how to receive feedback.

**Invite feedback regularly.**

You should ask for feedback regularly instead of waiting for a
performance review. This shows that

you have a positive attitude and want to improve. For example, when you
have finished a task, you

can ask your manager. What are some things that I did well? What are
some things I could have done differently?

**Be proactive**.

Be proactive when receiving a feedback. If you are unsure about how to
improve, ask for specific suggestions. This sets clear expectations for
what you should do. For example, if you\'re told, \"Your report needs
more work,\" you can follow up with a specific question like \"Do you
think it was too long?\" this helps you to be clear what improvements
should be made.

**Take responsibility for your mistakes**.

Accept responsibility for your actions. It can be easy to look for
excuses when hearing critical

feedback. But in order to become a better employee, you need to learn
from your mistakes.

**View feedback as a learning opportunity.**

You should view feedback as an opportunity to learn. Avoiding getting
defensive or ignoring the

other person\'s feedback. By focusing on improving you will become a
better employee.

**V/4 Feedback Tips**

**Limit your focus.**

Limit your feedback to a few specific issues. It\'s good to focus on two
or three main points. This

makes it easier for employees to focus on specific areas of improvement.

**Encourage reflection.**

Encourage employees to reflect on their behavior. Instead of telling
them that their behavior is wrong, ask them what they think about it.
This allows them to become aware of the impact their actions on their
own.

**Put your feedback in a larger context.**

Show how employees \' behavior impacts critical issues, like the team
morale or company objectives. Putting your comments in a larger context
makes the feedback less personal.

**Follow up.**

To make sure your feedback leads to improvement, follow up with your
employee regularly. You can arrange a meeting or even have an informal
conversation with the employee. This helps you keep track of the
employee's performance and give further feedback if necessary.

**Dialogue \-- Delivering Feedback**

**M:** Hey, Samantha, you wanted to see me.

**W:** Hey, Ted. Have a seat. I\'ve read your latest research report.
let me first just say great work. Not

only did you finish it ahead of the schedule, but it\'s incredibly
thorough and insightful.

**M:** Thank you so much. I've really been trying to push myself this
year.

**W:** I\'ve noticed. This year you\'ve gotten more efficient.


**M:** I\'m glad you think so. Do you think there\'s anything I can
improve on?

**W:** Well, I think you do your own work very well. But I would like to
see you take more responsibility

in guiding new employee. For example, last week, I asked you to help
Steve analyzed some social

media data, but you didn\'t offer as much help as you could have.

**M:** I\'m sorry about that. I was really busy, and Steve was mainly
responsible for the data.

**W:** True, Steve was responsible, but he\'s less experienced than you.
I asked you to help him because you could have helped him analyze that
data more effectively. but because the work was in thorough. Steve had
to stay really late, but it took twice as long to finish.

**M:** Wow. Yeah, I\'m, sorry I didn\'t think of it like that. Helping
Steve could have saved everyone a lot

of trouble.

**W:** We\'re all part of the team, and we need to work together as a
team. You have the potential to

play an important role in our department. But if you want to lead, and
you need to see the bigger picture.

**M:** You\'re right, thanks for your feedback, I won\'t let you down.

