# LEVEL 3

## Unit 1

**Part 1**

**Listening**

Kathy usually gets up at 6:30, but this morning, she didn't hear her
alarm. As a result, she overslept. She didn't get up until 7:00, 30
minutes later than usual. As a result, she didn't have time to cook
breakfast for her children.

*-Why did she oversleep? --She didn't hear her alarm.*

*-Why didn't she cook breakfast? --She didn't have time.*

Today Kathy and her kids left home early. They usually leave home at
7:30, but today they left at 7:15. They left early because they had to
buy breakfast on their way to school.

*-Why did they leave home early? --They had to buy breakfast on their
way to school.*

*-What did they have to buy on their way to school? --their breakfast.*

It usually takes 45 minutes to drive her kids to school, but today it
took longer. It took them longer because they stopped for breakfast
along the way. It took 15 minutes for them to have breakfast. They ate
at a little coffee shop along the side of the road.

*-How long does it usually take to drive her kids to school? --It
usually takes 45 minutes.*

*-How long did it take them to have breakfast? --It took 15 minutes.*

After eating breakfast, they got back into their car. On most days the
traffic isn't too bad in the morning. But this morning, it was much
worse than usual. The cars were moving very slowly. As a result it took
them longer than usual to get to school.

*-What did they do after eating breakfast? --They got back into their
car.*

One of her children got to school on time, but the other two were late.
They were late because their schools are farther away. They were both
about 10 minutes late to school.

*-How late were two of her children? --They were about 10 minutes late.*

When Kathy finally got home she cleaned her house as usual. She vacuumed
the living room and cleaned the bathroom. Then she talked with her
friend on the phone as usual. When she finished talking with her friend
she got into her car. She put the key into the ignition, and tried to
start the engine. But the car's engine didn't start. Her car battery was
dead, so she had to call for help.

*-What happened when she tried to start her car? --The car's engine
didn't start.*

*-Why did she have to call for help? --to get a new battery.*

After getting a new battery for her car, the engine started. Then Kathy
drove to the mall to meet her friend. She arrived to the mall an hour
late but her friend was waiting for her. They had lunch together and
then they went shopping. They both bought new shoes and some things for
their kids. Kathy bought a new tie for her husband.

*-What did Kathy buy for her husband? --a new tie.*

*-Who was waiting for her at the mall? --Her friend was waiting for
her.*

It's now 3:00 and everything is going as usual. Kathy doesn't want
anything else to go wrong. She wants the rest of the day to go as usual.
She doesn't want any more surprises. And tomorrow she won't oversleep.
She never wants to oversleep again.

*-What doesn't Kathy want? --more surprises.*

Here is a bus schedule at a bus stop. On most days the buses come on
schedule but sometimes they don't. Yesterday for example, several buses
were late. This is because the traffic yesterday was much heavier than
usual.

*-How was the traffic yesterday? --It was much heavier than usual.*

*-Why were several buses late? --The traffic was heavier than usual.*

Bus number 38 was supposed to come at 8:40, but it was 5 minutes late.
It didn't come until 8:45. Bus number 60 was supposed to come at 8:30.
But yesterday it didn't come until 8:40. It was 10 minutes late. Not one
bus came early.

*-How many buses came early? --Not one bus came early.*

As a result of the delays one man got on the wrong bus. He wanted to go
to the airport so he wanted to get on bus number 38. He expected it to
come at 8:40. Instead he got on bus number 60, which came at 8:40. He
didn't notice that it was the wrong bus. It didn't go to the airport. As
a result he missed his flight.

*-What time was bus number 38 supposed to come? -8:40.*

*-Why did the man miss his flight? --He got on the wrong bus.*

**Vocabulary**

Weddings are where two people get married. This man and woman are
getting married.

The building in the middle is an office building. Many people come to
work here during the week. These people are at a dance party. The woman
in the green dress is dancing with her boyfriend. These two people are
meeting for the first time. They are shaking hands. This young boy is
brushing his teeth. He brushes his teeth several times a day.

*-Who are shaking hands? --They are shaking hands.*

The triangle is inside the square. The square is around the triangle.
The triangle is inside the circle. The circle is around the triangle.
The square is inside the triangle. The triangle is around the square.
The circle is between two small squares. There is a square on either
side of the circle. The circle is on the left of the rectangle. The
rectangle is on the right of the circle.

Candies and cakes are sweet because they are made with lots of sugar.

Eating too many sweets is not good for your teeth.

Lemons and great food take a little sour so some people don't like them.

Some sour tasting foods have a lot of vitamin C.

These red peppers are very hot and spicy.

Eating hot or spicy food rises body temperature so don't eat them before
going into bed.

These foods are deep-fried and greasy.

Greasy foods have a lot of calories, so don't eat them if you want to
lose weight.

Healthy foods are usually nature and don't include dangerous chemical.
Fruits and vegetables are examples of healthy foods.

*-How do lemons and great food taste? --a little sour.*

**Dialogue**

W: Hey, where are you? I don't see you anywhere.

M: I'm on the subway.

W: My flight arrived early and I'm tired.

M: I'm sorry to be late. I'll be there as fast as I can.

*-Where is she? --She is at the airport.*

W: Where are you now?

M: There are three more stops. I'll be there in ten minutes.

W: I'll meet you at the bus stop in front of terminal 2. Then we can get
a taxi. M: OK. I'll look for you in front of terminal 2. See you soon.

*-What are they going to do after they meet? --Take a taxi.*

Lisa: What's the matter, Tom?

Tom: I don't feel well.

Lisa: Are you sick?

Tom: No, I don't think so. I'm just tired.

Lisa: Didn't you get enough sleep?

Tom: No, I didn't. I went to bed later than usual last night.

*-Why didn't he get enough sleep? --He went to bed later than usual.*

Lisa: What time did you go to bed?

Tom: I didn't go to bed until 12:00.

Lisa: Why did you stay up so late?

Tom: I was watching some videos on line.

*-He didn't go to bed until when? - He didn't go to bed until 12:00.*

Lisa: What kind of videos?

Tom: Music videos from all over the world.

Lisa: Really?

Tom: Sure, I'll send you some links if you like.

Lisa: Thanks, I like music videos too. They are really fun.

Tom: Just don't stay up too late.

Lisa: Don't worry, I won't stay up too late. I need my sleep.

*-Why won't she stay up too late? --She needs enough sleep.*

*He was watching videos.*

*He didn't go to bed until 12:00.*

**Part 2**

**Listening**

Our planet, the earth, is the third planet from the sun. It is a
beautiful, rotating sphere. The side facing the sun is in daylight. The
side facing away from the sun is in darkness. For example, when it's
daytime in the US, it's nighttime in China. In fact, there's a 12-hour
time difference between Boston and Shanghai. When it's midnight in
Shanghai, it's noon in Boston.

*-Which side of the earth is in daylight? --the side facing the sun.*

*-What is the shape of our planet? --a sphere.*

*-What time of the day is noon? --It's 12:00 pm.*

*-Which side of the earth is in darkness? --the side facing away from
the sun.*

The earth rotates from west to east. To know which direction is east or
west, watch the sun. The sun travels through the sky from east to west.
The sun comes up in the east and goes down in the west. Again, this is
because the earth rotates. It takes 24 hours for the earth to make a
complete rotation. And that is the length of one day.

*-The sun comes up in which direction? --It comes up in the east.*

Because of the earth's rotation, the earth is divided into time zones.
Some countries, such as the US, have several time zones. When it's 10 am
in New York, it's 7 am in San Francisco. Europe and the US are separated
by several time zones. When it's 5 pm in Paris, it's 11 am in Boston. So
there is a 6-hour difference between Paris and Boston. One large
country, China, has just one time zone for the whole country. As a
result, at the same time, some parts of the country can be dark and
other parts can be light.

*-Which large country has only one time zone? --China.*

*-Why is the earth divided into time zones? --It rotates.*

As you travel around the earth, the time changes. The time of day
depends on your location on the planet. When you travel east or west,
you may cross several time zones. For example, if you travel from
Beijing to Los Angeles, you cross 8 time zones. That means, when it's
noon on Sunday in China, it's 8 pm on Saturday in Los Angeles. For
travelers, this means it can be very difficult to sleep after a long
flight. The clock may say 8 pm, but for your body, it's noon. This is
called jet lag.

*-What causes jet lag? --crossing several time zones.*

*-What happens if you travel east or west? --You may cross several time
zones.*

*-What changes as you travel around the earth? --the time.*

*-What happens if you travel from Beijing to Los Angeles? --You will
cross several time zones.*

*It depends on how far east or west you travel.*

*Crossing several time zones causes jet lag.*

Kim is a popular Korea actress. She's 28 years old, slim, and beautiful.
She has a large fan club, and her movies are very popular. Everywhere
she goes, her fans want her autograph. But Kim wants more. She wants to
be popular all over the world.

*-What does Kim do? --She is an actress.*

*-What does Kim want? --She wants to be more popular.*

*-What do her fans want? --Her autograph.*

Tomorrow is a special day for her. She's leaving for Hollywood. She's
going to Hollywood to meet with some top movie executives. The meeting
is scheduled the day after tomorrow. If the meeting goes well, she'll be
in a Hollywood movie. This is her chance to become a star.

*-When is she leaving for Holly Wood? --tomorrow.*

*-What will happen if the meeting goes well? --She'll be in a Hollywood
movie.*

*-When is she going to meet with executives? --the day after tomorrow.*

She met the movie's director last year. He came to Korea and saw her
latest movie. After that he decided to use her in his new movie.
Fortunately, Kim's English is excellent, so she can play the role.

*-Who did she meet in Korea last year? --the movie's director.*

*-What did the movie director decide to do? -He decided to use her in
his new movie.*

The director wants her to play a major role in the movie. The movie
story will take place in the future. At that time the world will be a
very different place. Unfortunately, much of world will be polluted.
Robots will do much of the work, and only the very rich can have a good
life.

*-In the movie, who can have a good life? --the very rich.*

*-What are robots? --machines.*

The ending of the movie is still a secret. Even Kim doesn't know how it
will end. But she hopes it will have a happy ending. She wants people to
have hope for a better future.

*-What doesn't Kim know? --the ending of the movie.*

**Vocabulary**

These people are having a meeting. The woman is giving a presentation.
This person is having a scary dream. In his dream, something is chasing
him, so he is running as fast as he can. This old man is a tourist. He
is looking out the window of his tour bus. This young couple is in an
art museum. They are looking at a famous painting. The sun is setting
behind the mountains. The sky is turning red.

*Some buses, like this one, take tourists to places like the Great
Wall.*

*She's giving a presentation at a meeting.*

The longest line is the one on the top. The top line is the longest of
the three lines. The shortest line is the one in the middle. The line in
the middle is shorter than the other two. The bottom line is the
shortest. The shortest of these three lines is the one on the bottom.
The shirt on the left is more expensive than the shirt on the right. The
shirt on the right is less expensive than the shirt on the left. The
shirt on the left isn't as expensive as the one on the right. The shirt
on the left costs less than the one on the right.

*The shirt on the left is more expensive than the shirt on the right.*

Winter is the coldest season because the sun is at its lowest point in
the sky. Winter sports include skiing and ice skating. Summer is the
hottest season because the sun is at its highest point in the sky. Many
people like to go swimming in the summer because of the hot weather.
Spring is the season when the weather gets warmer each day. For many
animals new life begins in the spring. Autumn is the season when the
weather begins to cool and the days begin to shorten. Autumn is when
trees turn many colors and leaves fall to the ground. Rainy season is
the season when some countries get most of the rainfall. Rainy season
usually lasts for one or two months.

**Dialogue**

M: Hi, I'm sorry to be late.

W: What happened? You were supposed to be here an hour ago. M: Yes, I
know, but I missed my flight.

*-How late is he? --H's an hour late.*

W: You missed your flight? How did that happen?

M: I got on the wrong bus this morning, so I was late to the airport. By
the time I arrived, the gate was closed.

W: What did you do then?

M: I had to rebook my flight and get on the waiting list.

*-Why was he late to the airport? --He got on the wrong bus.*

*-What did he do when he got to the airport? --He rebooked his flight.*

*He had to get on a waiting list because other people were also trying
to get on the flight.*

W: Oh, that's too bad. At least you got here.

M: Yes, it wasn't easy getting on the next flight. I had to run to the
gate.

W: This kind of thing happens a lot lately. Last week I missed a flight,
too.

*-What wasn't easy? --It wasn't easy getting on the next flight.*

M: What happened?

W: There was a traffic accident near the airport.

M: You were driving?

W: No, I wasn't. I was in a taxi. But it took a long time to get to the
airport. The traffic was stopped for nearly 15 minutes.

*-Why did it take a long time to get to the airport? --The traffic was
stopped because of an accident.*

W: By the time I got there, it was too late to get on the flight. The
next flight wasn't for another 3 hours, so it was a long wait. From now
on, I'll try to get to the airport much earlier. M: Me too.

*-How long did she have to wait for the next flight? --She had to wait
three hours. She had to wait three hours for the next flight.*

M: What's the matter? Why do you look so sad?

W: Adam has a new job. She's going to Beijing.

M: Really? When is she leaving?

W: She's leaving at the end of next week.

M: That soon?

W: Yes, she just told me.

M: That's too bad. I really enjoy working with her.

W: Me too, I'm going to miss her.

*-When is Adam leaving? --She is leaving at the end of next week.*

W: Let's have a going-away party for her.

M: Good idea. How about this weekend?

W: Friday evening would be better. We can have it after work. M: Yes,
Friday is better.

*-When are they going to have the party? --They're going to have it on
Friday evening.*

*-Why is Friday evening better than the weekend? --They can have the
party after work.*

W: Let's go to her favorite restaurant, okay?

M: Which one? The Italian one, or the German one?

W: The Italian one has better food, so let's go there. Their pizzas are
awesome.

*-How good are the pizzas at the Italian restaurant? --They are
awesome.*

*-Why did they decide on the Italian restaurant? --They think it has
better food.*

M: OK, I'll make the reservations.

W: Let me check with Adam first. We don't want her to miss her party.

M: Yeah, that's for sure. And could you please invite everyone in the
office? W: Sure, no problem. Nobody will want to miss it.

*-What are they going to check with Adam? --They need to confirm that
she can come to the party.*

**Part 3**

**Listening**

Paul is a very successful businessman. He owns several restaurants. All
of them are doing well. In fact, they are very profitable. To be
profitable means that their income is more than their expenses. As a
result, he is making a lot of money.

*-What does Paul do? --He is a businessman.*

*-Why is he making a lot of money? --His restaurants are profitable.*

*He is making money because his restaurants are profitable.*

Paul wants to buy a new car. He's trying to decide which car to buy. He
has plenty of money. As a result, he isn't worried about the cost. He
can afford an expensive car.

*-Why isn't he worry about the cost? --He has plenty of money.*

*-As a result is the same as saying... -so*

On the other hand, he doesn't want to waste money. He wants a car he can
rely on.

It has to be safe and reliable, especially in cold winter weather. If a
car breaks down in bad weather, it can be very dangerous.

*-What kinds of car does he want? --a safe, reliable car.*

Paul wants to help reduce pollution and smog. He would like to buy a
clean car, something good for the environment. He is thinking about
buying a Tesla. The Tesla is an all-electric car. It used batteries
instead of gasoline. There is no exhaust so it doesn't pollute the air.

*-What kind of car is Tesla? --It is a clean, electric car.*

*-Why doesn't the Tesla pollute the air? --It doesn't exhaust.*

However, the car can't go very far without recharging the battery. To
charge the battery you can plug it in to an electrical outlet.
Recharging the battery takes time.

*-What takes time? --Recharging the battery.*

One of Paul's friends has one and he is quite happy with it. He says
it's reliable and well-engineered. There're also several charging
station near Paul's office. So he isn't worried about that. The cost for
charging the battery is low. It's less expensive than buying gasoline.
His wife, Kathy, also likes the idea of buying an electric car. She
likes the idea of driving a clean car. So it makes sense.

*-What's less expensive than buying gasoline? --charging the battery.*

*-Why isn't Paul worried about finding charging stations? --There're
several charging stations near Paul's office.*

In the future there may be driverless cars. This may be very safe, but
Paul doesn't like them. He enjoys driving. He likes to be in control of
his car.

*-What does Paul enjoy doing? --He enjoys driving.*

**Vocabulary**

The man in the middle is the heaviest. The man in the middle is heavier
than the other two. The woman on the left is smarter than the man on the
right. The man isn't as smart as the woman is. The woman is standing
under a bridge. The bridge is above the woman. There is a bridge over
the river. The river is flowing beneath the bridge. The water is flowing
over a waterfall. The waterfall is very high and beautiful.

People need passports to travel internationally. Without a passport, you
cannot leave your country or enter another country. You need a driver's
license to drive a car. It is against the law to drive without a
driver's license. Many people use credit cards to buy things on credit.
When you have a credit card, you don't need to carry cash. Smart phones
are very useful and can do many things. You can use them to make phone
calls, play games, or go shopping on the internet. We need to buy
tickets in order to take a train, or watch a sport event. You can often
buy tickets on line and sometimes you can get a discount.

Banks are where people can deposit or withdraw money. You can also use
online bank to pay bills, such as your credit card bill. Hotels are
where travelers can stay overnight or for several days. If you plan to
stay at a hotel you should make a reservation. Restaurants are where
people go to eat with friends and family. There are many different kinds
of restaurants, such as Indian, Italian, or Chinese restaurants.

Repair shops are where people go to fix things which are broken or not
working right.

This repair shop fixes cars and can check to see if it's safe to drive.

Coffee shops are favorite place to meet new people or take a break from
the office. They are usually less expensive than restaurants.

**Dialogue**

M: I'm tired of going out to eat. Let's eat at home tonight.

W: OK, are you going to cook?

M: No, it's too late, you know I'm not a good cook. Let's order
something.

*-What are they going to do? --They are going to order food.*

*-Why does he want to eat at home? --He's tired of going out to eat.*

W: What do you have in mind?

M: I was thinking about a nice big pizza.

W: Again? I had pizza last night. So, please, no pizza.

*-What was he thinking about ordering? --He was thinking about ordering
a pizza.*

*-Why doesn't she want pizza? --She's tired of eating pizza.*

M: OK, no pizza. Let's order Chinese food, okay?

W: Sweet and sour? You always like sweet and sour. I feel like eating
something hot and spicy.

M: OK, you order something hot and spicy, and I order sweet and sour. I
don't want anything spicy. My stomach doesn't feel good. It's a bit
upset.

*-What does she feel like eating? --something hot and spicy.*

*-Why doesn't he want something hot and spicy? --His stomach doesn't
feel good.*

W: OK, if you want sweet and sour then I'll have that too. And I'll make
a salad with lots of tomatoes. How long will it take for the food to get
here.

M: I don't know. I'll call and find out.

W: Thanks. Hopefully it won't take longer than an hour. I'm getting
hungry.

*-What do they finally decide to order? --They decide to order sweet and
sour.*

*-How long will it take for the food to be delivered? --They don't
know.*

M: Hey, what did you do last night?

W: I took a long walk from my hotel.

M: You didn't get lost?

W: No, I didn't.

*-What did she do last night? --She took a long walk.*

*-What is she staying? --She is staying at a hotel.*

M: Where did you go, anywhere interesting?

W: I walked to river. There were thousands of people there.

M: You went to the river? How long did it take you to walk there.

W: It took around 20 minutes.

M: Did you see anything interesting?

W: I was really surprised by how many people were there.

*-How did she get to the river? --She walked to the river.*

*-What did she see at the river? --She saw thousands of people there.*

W: Many of them were taking pictures and selfies, Lots of selfies.

M: Do you take selfies?

W: Sure, don't you?

M: Sometimes, but my girlfriend takes a lot of selfies. Then she shares
them with her friends on line. I don't understand why people like to
take so many pictures of themselves. W: That's because you are
old-fashioned.

*-What does his girlfriend put on line? --She puts her selfies on line.*

*-What does it mean to take a selfies? --It means to take a picture of
yourself with your smart phone.*

M: Hmm, I guess you are right. There are too many social media for me.
When I go to a restaurant, I see many people looking at their smart
phones. They don't even look at the people they are with. W: Times are
changing, my friend, whether you like it or not.

*-What are the people doing in the restaurant? --They are looking at
their smart phones.*

**Part 4**

**Listening**

Christina sells women's clothing in a department store. She usually
works six days a week, but this week she's going to take three days off.
She's taking time off so that she can visit her parents. Her parents
live in the mountains, about three hours away by train. They are looking
forward to seeing her. They haven't seen her for almost a year.
Christina is their only child.

*-What does Christina sell? --Women's clothing.*

*-When was the last time Christina saw her parents? --It was almost a
year ago.*

*-Why is she taking time off? --She is taking time off to visit her
parents.*

Christina isn't going on the trip by herself. Her boyfriend is going
with her. She is going to introduce him to her parents. She and her
boyfriend want to get married. If everything goes well, they plan to get
married in 6 months.

*-What is the purpose of the trip? --To introduce her boyfriend to her
parents.*

*-When do they plan to get married? --In 6 months.*

After they get married, Christina plans to quit her job. She wants to
spend more time designing clothes. She wants to set up her own business.
This will take time. Her boyfriend thinks it's a good idea. He is also
thinking about starting his own business.

*-What does Christina plan to do after she gets married? --She plans to
quit her job.*

*-What does her boyfriend think it's a good idea? --Start her own
business.*

They don't plan to have children right away. In fact, they may decide
not to have children. They don't know yet. It's going to be a big
decision.

*-What's going to be a big decision? --To have children or not.*

*-What may they decide not to do? --They may decide not to have
children.*

Christina's parents want her to marry and have children. They are
looking forward to have grandchildren. They don't want her to start her
own business. They think it's more important to have children. In fact,
they would like her to live closer to them. They want to be close to
their grandchildren.

*-What do Christina's parents want? --They want her to marry and have
children.*

*-Where would Christina's parents like her to live? --They would like
her to live nearby.*

So Christina doesn't plan to tell her parents everything. For now, she
just wants them to meet her boyfriend. She wants them to be happy that
she is going to get married. She wants them to like him and see her
happiness. She wants her parents to accept her way of life. Life isn't
the same now as it used to be. Times are changing.

*-What does Christina want her parents to do for now? --She just wants
them to meet her boyfriend.*

**Vocabulary**

Mechanics, like this one, fix cars.

He is working in a repair shop.

A delivery person delivers things, such as pizzas.

This person works for a restaurant.

A pharmacist sells medicines.

Pharmacists, like this woman, work in a pharmacy.

Thieves, like this one, steal things.

This thief is stealing a television from a home.

A musician, like this one, plays music.

This musician is playing a guitar.

*Stealing things is against the law.*

These people are wearing masks because of the smog.

One cause of smog is automobile exhaust.

It's raining hard so you need an umbrella.

Heavy rain like this can cause flooding and mud slides.

When the sky is overcast we can't see the sun because of the clouds.

A cloudy sky means that it might rain.

We need to wear a coat when it's cold and windy.

In a very strong wind, it's difficult to use an umbrella.

We need to drink water or other liquids when it's hot outside.

When it's really hot most people turn on the air conditioning.

Here are some different types of things to read.

Works or fictions include novels, short stories and plays, such as
Shakespeare.

We read fiction to enjoy stories of imagination and adventure.

People read the news to learn about what's happening in the world.

We can get the news in newspapers and online.

When we buy something, we often need to read an instruction manual.

Instruction manuals show us how to put together or install things.

Non-fiction works include biographies and books about science and
history.

We read non-fiction to learn about different subjects and real people.

We can learn about the latest scientific research in journals and
academic papers. Many online universities courses give a list of
research papers to read.

Dialogue

M1: What's wrong?

M2: I can't walk. My left foot hurts.

M1: Is it broken?

M2: I don't know if it's broken, but it sure hurts.

*-What hurts? --His left foot hurts.*

M1: There's one way to find out if it's broken.

M2: How?

M1: You need to see a doctor. The doctor can X-ray your foot.

*-How can they find out if his foot is broken? --They need to see a
doctor.*

*-Who can X-ray his foot? --a doctor.*

M2: OK, let's go. I can't walk by myself. Can you help me into a taxi?

M1: Sure, I'll call a taxi. I'll get you to a hospital as soon as
possible.

M2: Thanks. I sure hope it isn't broken.

M1: We'll find out soon enough.

*-Where do they want to go? --They want to go to a hospital.*

W: I don't feel like cooking tonight. Let's go out.

M: Where would you like to go?

W: I feel like eating some great Italian food. M: How about AI's
Italian, it's always good. *-What doesn't she feel like doing?
--cooking.*

W: We went there last week. Let's try something new. You have no
imagination. You always want to go to the same place.

M: Right, I don't like unpleasant surprises. I just want things to be
simple.

*-What does she want to do? --She wants to try something new.*

*-Why doesn't she want to go to AI's Italian? --They went there last
week.*

W: OK, let's compromise.

M: What does that mean? What do you mean by compromise?

W: Let's go 50-50. This time we'll go someplace new and new and next
time we can go to one of your favorites.

M: OK, I'll compromise and make you halfway.

W: Good, I'll look for something new and make reservations.

*-What does she suggest? --She suggests that they compromise.*

M: Great, let's not go too late.

W: I'll make reservations for 8. Is that okay?

M: Yes, perfect.

*He doesn't like unpleasant surprises.*

**Unit2**

**Part 1**

**Listening**

Matter is made of atoms and molecules.

Water, for example, is the H2O molecule.

This means that a molecule of water has 3 atoms.

A water molecule has 2 hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom.

Substances like sugar have many atoms in their molecules.

A molecule of sugar has many atoms, including carbon, hydrogen, and
oxygen.

Matter is made of molecules such as H2O, which is the water molecule.

Matter can be in one of three states, solid, liquid, and gas.

Water and ice are the same substance, but they are in different states.

These states depend on the temperature of molecules.

When we heat a substance, the molecules move faster and try to take up
more space.

When we cool a substance, the molecules move more slowly. When we cool a
substance to it's freezing point, it becomes a solid.

In a solid, the molecules move very little. Their positions are almost
fixed. To be fixed means that their positions don't change.

If we heat the molecules, they move faster and away from each other.

The solid begins to melt, like ice cream on a hot day.

At a certain temperature, a solid begins to change into a liquid.

The temperature at which a solid changes into a liquid depends on the
substances.

For water, the solid begins to change into a liquid when it\'s
temperature rises to above 0 degree Celsius.

For some substances, such as steel, the temperature at which it becomes
a liquid is much higher.

Steel often melts at around 1370 degrees Celsius.

If we continue to heat a liquid, the molecules move even faster.

At a certain temperature, the liquid begins to change into a gas.

For water, the liquid begins to change into a gas at 100 degrees
Celsius. This is the boiling point of water.

Inside a star, such as our sun, the temperature is very high. Everything
inside the sun is a gas. According to scientists, there are over 65
elements inside the sun. This include oxygen and iron. Over 90 percent
of the sun is hydrogen gas.

Yesterday there was an important science text. Lisa, Tom and 20 other
classmates took the text.

The text was about the states of matter and how they are different.

There were 25 questions on the text and they had 45 minutes to take it.

Here some of the text results. Two students got perfect scores. The
lowest score was 68 out of 100.The average score was 86.3. 11 students
scored higher than average. 11 students had below average scores.

Tom missed 2 questions on the text, so his score was 92. His score was
the 8 highest in the class. Lisa missed 2 and a half questions, so her
score was 90. Her score was the 10 highest score.

Her score was 4 points higher than the average score.

Lisa was disappointed with her text results. She studied hard for the
text, but she still didn\'t do well.

As a result, she plans to study harder for the next text. The next text
will be in about 2 weeks. Tom was surprised and happy with his text
results. He didn\'t study hard, so his result was better than he
expected.

He was also happy that he did better than Lisa did.

**Vocabulary**

She is screaming because she is really scared. Something is chasing her
so she is screaming for help. He is shouting because he is angry. When
he's really angry he often shouts like this. She is sleeping because
she's tired. Last night she didn't get enough sleep, so today she has no
energy. She's crying because she's sad. She got some bad news a few
minutes ago. She's smiling because she's happy. Her boyfriend just
called and he's returning from a long trip.

*Who is smiling because she got some good news?*

This man is hiking up a mountain trail. He is wearing hiking boots and
is carrying a pack on his back. This man enjoys cooking. He attends a
cooking class once a week. This woman enjoys gardening. She grows
flowers, such as roses, and vegetables, such as tomatoes, in her garden.
This boy loves playing games. He likes all kinds of games, including
this video games on his computer. This old couple enjoys travelling.
They take several trips a year, often to different countries.

**Dialogue**

W: Oh, there you are, finally.

M: Yeah, I'm sorry.

W: Why are you so late? You were supposed to be here 30 minutes ago.

M: I got on the wrong subway by mistake.

*-When was he supposed to be there? -30 minutes ago.*

*-Why was he late? --He took the wrong subway.*

W: Why didn't you call? I was really worried.

M: I don't have my phone. I left it in the office because I was in such
a hurry to get here.

W: OK, well, you're here now. We don't have much time.

M: Yes, we'll have to hurry. The meeting starts in 15 minutes, right? W:
Yes, it's supposed to, if everyone gets here on time.

*-When is the meeting supposed to start? --in 15 minutes.*

*-To hurry means.. --To go fast.*

W: Did you read my presentation?

M: Yes, I do. It's good, but it's a bit too long. I'm afraid there won't
be enough time for questions.

W: Do you have any suggestions?

M: Yes, I do. I think the company introduction can be cut in half. They
know what we do.

W: OK, I won't show the video. It's about 2 minutes long.

M: That's a good idea. The video is on our website and is not that good
any way.

*-What is she going to cut from her presentation? --the video.*

*-Why is the presentation a bit too long? --There isn't enough time for
questions.*

W: Do you have any other suggestions?

M: No, I don't. I'm sure you're doing a great job. Are you ready?

W: Yes, I'm ready. The meeting room is on the 21st floor.

M: OK, let's go.

*-Where is the meeting going to be? --in a meeting room.*

*She's ready to give her presentation at the meeting.*

Lisa: How did you do on yesterday's science test?

Tom: I did better than expected. How about you?

Lisa: I didn't do very well. I expected to do better than I did.

Tom: What was your score?

Lisa: I got a 90. What about you?

Tom: I got a 92. I only missed two questions.

*-How well did he do on the test? --He did better than expected.*

*She didn't do as well as she expected.*

Lisa: So you did better than I did. And I really study for it too.

Tom: That is a surprise. You usually do better than I do.

Lisa: Yes, I wasn't careful. I made one really stupid mistake.

Tom: What was it?

Lisa: I said 90% of the sun is Helium instead of Hydrogen.

Tom: Wow. That was a stupid mistake.

*-Why was he surprised by the result? --He did better than she did.*

Tom: What was the average score for the class, do you know?

Lisa: The average score was 86.3 and the lowest was 68. Tom: Do you know
who got the lowest test score?

Lisa: No, I don't. I don't know who got the lowest score.

Tom: It's probably a secret. Did anyone get a perfect score?

Lisa: I think Ada and Sandi both got perfect score.

Tom: Yes, they always do well. I wish I were as smart as they are.

*-What was the average test score? -86.3.*

**Part 2**

**Listening**

In six weeks Paul is going on a trip. He is going to Japan and China.
There are a couple of reasons for the trip. One reason is for business.
He is thinking about starting restaurants in both countries. The other
reason is for pleasure. He enjoys travelling and he'd like to visit some
friends.

*-What's going to happen in six weeks? --He is going on a trip.*

*-What is he thinking about starting in both countries? --He is thinking
about starting restaurants.*

Yesterday he went online and made airline reservations. There were
plenty of seats on the plane, so it was easy. He also got a good
discount. Unfortunately, he needs a new passport. His old passport is
expiring next week. This is something he didn't expect. Getting a new
passport will take at least a week. He needs to apply for one right
away.

*-Why did he need to get a new passport? --His old one is expiring
soon.*

*-What did he need to do right away? --apply for a new passport.*

*-How long will it take to get a new passport? --At least a week.*

Paul also needs a visa to enter China. The last time he went to China
was 3 years ago. Getting a visa may also take a week or even two. So he
doesn't have much time. He needs to hurry. He can't get the visa until
he gets his new passport. He'll have to go to the Chinese consulate in
Toronto. Hopefully there won't be any delays.

*-What may take a week or two? --getting a visa.*

*-When was the last time he went to China? -3 years ago.*

Paul has several friends in each country. One of his best friends lives
near Mountain Fuji. His friend lives near a beautiful lake about 3 hours
from Tokyo. His friend is a great cook and owns a little restaurant. The
restaurant is located on a hill above the lake. It has a wonderful view
and the food is wonderful. Paul is looking forward to eating there. Then
he will spend the night at his friend's house.

*-Where is Paul going to stay? --He'll stay at his friend's house.*

*-What does his friend do? --He owns a restaurant.*

One way to get to his friend's house is to go by train. If he takes a
train his friend will meet him at the train station. There's a train
station about half an hour from his friend's house. On the other hand he
may decide to go by car. He can rent a car for a few days and see more
of the country. He can use a GPS to help him with directions. He doesn't
speak Japanese so the directions need to be in English.

*-Why do the directions need to be in English? --He doesn't speak
Japanese.*

*-If he takes a train, who will meet him? --His friend.*

In China Paul has a good friend who lives in Beijing. They studied at
the same university in Canada more than 15 years ago. His Chinese friend
wants to help Paul with his business. His friend has lots of business
experiences. His friend can help Paul learn about doing business in
China. Paul knows there is a lot to learn. He will certainly need his
friend's help.

*-Where did Paul meet his Chinese friend? --At a university in Canada.*

*-What does Paul want to learn? --About doing business in China.*

While in Beijing, they plan to visit several Italian restaurants. They
may meet with some of the owners too, but it isn't certain yet. Most of
the owners are Chinese. One or two of them may want to do business with
Paul. If he has time he may go to the Great Wall of China. It's a few
hours outside Beijing by car.

*-Who may want to do business with Paul? --One or two restaurant
owners.*

Altogether, the trip may take three or more weeks. Paul still isn't sure
how long he will stay in each country. He may spend a week in Japan and
two weeks in China. He may decide to stay longer. Everything depends on
his friends. He expects to get more information from them in the next
day or two.

*-When does he expect to hear from his friends? --In a couple of days.*

*-What do his plans depend on? --His friends.*

**Vocabulary**

In basketball, players score points by shooting a basketball through a
hoop.

Each side has 5 players and the game is played on a basketball court.

Football is probably the world's most popular sport.

Each team tries to score a goal by kicking the ball into a net.

Baseball is a team sport where each side has 9 players.

Baseball players use a bat to try to hit the ball and get on base.

Golf is an individual sport where players try to hit the ball into a
hole in the ground.

The game is played on a golf course with 18 holes.

In boxing the two boxers stand in a boxing ring and hit each other.

Sometimes a boxer, like this one, knocks the other one out.

When people fall down, they can break a bone.

A broken bone can be very painful.

If someone is cut, they will bleed.

A knife or sharp object can cut someone and cause bleeding.

Poisons are very dangerous and cause death.

Some snakes and spiders are poisonous, so be careful.

A heart attack can happen very suddenly.

If someone has a heart attack, call for an ambulance right away.

If you catch on fire, fall to the ground and roll.

Getting too close to a fire can be very dangerous.

**Dialogue**

M: What's the matter? You look really tired today.

W: I am tired. I didn't sleep well last night. M: Bad dream.

W: Yes, exactly. I had a terrible dream, a really nightmare.

M: So it woke you up.

W: Yes, it woke me up. I was really scared.

M: I've had those kinds of dreams too.

W: It was so scary that I was afraid to go back to sleep.

*-Why didn't she sleep well last night? --She had a terrible dream.*

M: Was something chasing you?

W: No, nothing was chasing me, but I was falling. I was falling faster
and faster, and it was dark. I couldn't see or hear anything.

M: Can you remember anything else?

W: Yes, I remember now. In my dream I was screaming, but there was no
sound. I thought I was going to die at any second.

M: Wow. That is scary.

*-What was she doing in her dream? --falling and screaming.*

M: So what did you do when you woke up?

W: I didn't want to go back to sleep, so I checked the news online. Then
I played the game.

M: You didn't go back to sleep?

W: Actually I got too tired playing the game than I fell asleep.

M: Well, at least you got some sleep. Some sleep is better than no
sleep.

W: I guess so. But I'm still tired. I hope I can get through the day.

*-What did she do when she woke up? --She went online.*

*-What was she doing when she fell asleep? --She was playing a game
online.*

M: Have a good lunch and then work out in the afternoon.

W: Thanks, I'm already feeling a bit better.

M: Hey, look, the boss is coming. Look like you're working hard.

*-How is she feeling now? --She's feeling a bit better.*

*She had a terrible dream, and it woke her up.*

M: Hey, what's that awful smell?

W: The toilet is broken in the men's bathroom.

M: Wow. I can't work when it smells this bad. I need some fresh air.

*-What's causing the awful smell? --a broken toilet.*

*-Why can't he work? --He can't work because of the bad smell.*

W: OK, let's take a break and go out for a walk. Get your computer and
we can work at a coffee shop. M: Good idea. When do you think it will be
cleaned up?

W: A plumber is coming and he should be here soon. By the time we get
back, the smell should be gone.

*-Who is coming to fix the toilet? --a plumber.*

*-To take a break means... -To stop working for a while.*

M: That's one job that I wouldn't want. I hate to be around bad smells.
What about you?

W: Me too. I wouldn't want to be a plumber.

M: There are lots of jobs that I wouldn't want.

W: We can talk about that later. Get your computer and let's get out of
here.

*-What job wouldn't they want to have? --They wouldn't want to be a
plumber.*

**Part 3**

**Listening**

Last month Paul went on a trip. He went to Japan and China. There were a
couple of reasons for the trip. One reason for the trip was for
business. He wanted to start some restaurants in both countries. The
other reason was for pleasure. Paul enjoys travelling and he wanted to
visit some friends.

*-What was he thinking about starting in both countries? --some
restaurants.*

Before leaving on the trip Paul had several problems. First his passport
was going to expire. As a result he needed to apply for a new passport.
Second he needed to get a visa to enter China. In order to apply for a
visa, he needed his new passport. He had 6 weeks to get everything done.

*-Why did he need a visa? --He needed a visa to enter China.*

After applying for a new passport it took 2 weeks to get it. Once he got
the passport he went to the Chinese consulate in Toronto and applied for
a visa. He filled out an application form and stood in a long line. He
was surprised by how many people were applying for visas. It took more
than an hour to submit his application.

*-How long did it take to submit the application? --It took more than an
hour to submit it.* *-Why did he go to the Chinese consulate? --To apply
for a visa.*

He submitted his application for the visa on a Friday. A week later he
went back to the consulate to pick up his visa. To his surprise, when he
got there, the consulate was closed. The consulate was closed because it
was a Chinese holiday. Paul was angry at himself for not checking the
consulate's website. On its website the consulate's schedule was posted.
There was a notice saying that the consulate would be closed that day.

*-Why was the consulate closed? --It was a Chinese holiday.*

As a result, Paul had to come back the next Monday. This was because the
consulate was closed on weekends. Finally on Monday, he got the visa and
he was ready to go.

*-Why did he have to wait until Monday to come back? --The consulate was
closed on weekends.*

Another problem with the trip was his travel schedule. He needed to
extend his stay in Japan. One week in Japan wasn't enough. 3 Japanese
restaurant owners wanted to meet with him. He needed more time for the
meetings than a couple of days. And he didn't want to miss staying with
the good friend of his.

*-What did he need to do his schedule? --He needed to extend his stay in
Japan.*

*-What didn't he want to miss? --Staying with a good friend of his.*

His friend lives near Mountain (Mt. for short) Fuji and owns a great
restaurant. This was one thing Paul didn't want to miss. As a result he
extended his stay in Japan. Instead of staying for just a week, he
decided to stay for 10 days.

*-What does his friend own? --He owns a great restaurant.*

As a result he had to change the dates for staying in China. The
meetings in China were delayed by 3 days. Instead of arriving on the
1^st^ of the month, he arrived on the 4^th^. Fortunately, there were no
problems with his new schedule in China.

*-What problems were caused by his new schedule in China? --It didn't
cause any problems.*

However there were fewer meetings than he expected. There wasn't much
interest in opening new Italian restaurants. Still, he had one very good
meeting. He met a young Chinese restaurant owner who was interested. The
young man already has a restaurant, but he wants to improve it. He and
Paul liked each other right away. They met twice in Beijing and are
planning to meet again.

*-How much interest was there in opening new Italian restaurants? --not
much.*

*-How many times did Paul meet the young man? --They met twice.*

The young Chinese man's name is G. He is planning to come to see Paul.
They're going to meet lately next week in Toronto. Together they will
work on a business plan. Paul is glad that he took the trip. He thinks
it was a successful and enjoyable trip.

*-What are they going to work on? --a business plan.*

**Vocabulary**

Ambulances are used to transport injured or sick people to a hospital.

An ambulance is trained medical personal who can treat injured or sick
people.

A wheel chair is for people who can't walk.

Wheel chairs have 4 wheels and are often pushed by people from behind.

Fire engines are used to fight fires.

Firefighters like this one often rescue people from burning buildings.

Tow trucks are used to tow cars, this tow truck is towing a car to a
repair shop.

Helicopters are used to rescue people from dangerous places.

This helicopter is lifting someone from a sinking boat.

*If your car won't start, you should call for a tow truck.*

This tree is bending over because of the strong wind.

It's going to be windy for the next few days.

It's a very clear night, so they can look up and see many stars.

There isn't a single cloud in the sky.

It's very cold today, so they are wearing very warm clothes.

Without warm clothes, they would freeze to death.

It's nice to eat ice cream on a hot day.

This mother is buying ice cream for her daughter.

This old man has to wear glasses to read.

Without reading glasses, he can't see clearly enough to read.

**Dialogue**

M: How was Ada's new job in Beijing?

W: It seems to be going well. I talked with her last night.

M: How much is she getting paid?

W: I'm not sure. She said she's earning more, but I don't know she's
getting.

M: Where is she living? Has she found a flat?

W: No, not yet. She's living with a friend, until she can find one of
her own. Flats are more expensive there, and the quality isn't good.

*-Who is Ada living with? --She's living with a friend.*

*-How long will Ada be living with her friend? --She's going to stay
until she can find a flat of her own.*

M: Did she say anything else?

W: Her biggest complaint is the air quality. She hates the pollution. On
some days the pollution is so bad that she is afraid to breathe.

M: Yeah, I won't want to live there.

W: She's hoping it will get better.

M: I'm sure we will, but it'll take time, especially with all the cars.

*-What is Ada's biggest complaint? --the poor air quality.*

W: She also said she is still looking for a new boyfriend.

M: That shouldn't be difficult. She's nice and she's good-looking. Has
she met anyone? W: No, I don't think so. She's looking for someone on
the internet.

M: Maybe she'll be lucky.

W: I think I'm going to try that too.

M: Really?

W: What other choices do we have? It's so difficult to meet someone new.
I never have any time. M: Me too. I'm always working. Maybe I'll try
online dating too.

*-Where is she looking for a new boyfriend? --She is looking for someone
on the internet.*

M: If I'm lucky I may meet someone new, like Steve's girlfriend.

W: Oh, come one, you're joking, right? I hope you can find someone
better than her.

M: Steve seems happy enough.

W: Yes, but he is blind by love, you know that. I'm sure you won't last
for long. As soon as she gets bored, she'll find someone else.

M: You may be right. Let's wait and see.

*-What is blinding Steve? --He is blinded by love.*

M: Hey, what about dinner?

W: Sure, it's getting late and maybe I'll be the woman of your dreams.

M: Well, let's take one night at a time. Let's have some Indian food,
okay? W: OK, tend and chicken for me. And I'm hungry.

*-What kind of food are they going to eat? --They are going to have
Indian food. She's earning more, but we don't know how much she's being
paid.*

**Part 4**

**Listening**

Earth is where we all live. It is our home in the solar system. There is
no other place for us to live. Earth isn't just any planet. It's a very
special place. It's special because we depend on it for many things.
Because of its importance we need to take care of it.

*-Why is earth so specially? --We depend on it for many things.*

We depend on the earth for its air, its water and many of its nature
resources. Nature resources such as coal and oil give us energy. Other
nature resources we depend on include forests and soil. Forests provide
clean air and wood for building houses. Soil is needed to grow plants
and keep them healthy. We need to take care of these resources and not
to waste them.

*-What are examples of nature resources? --Coal and oil.*

*-What don't we want to do with nature resources? --We don't want to
waste them.*

The earth is a large, rotating sphere, about 4.5 billion years old. The
equator, which divides the earth into two hemispheres, is about 40
thousand kilometers long. The earth's diameter is 12756 kilometers. Its
radius is half that, or 6378 kilometers. The radius is the distance from
the earth center to its surface. Most of the earth's surface is covered
by water. About 75% of the earth's surface is covered by water. The rest
of the earth's surface is land.

*-What divides the earth into two hemispheres? --The equator.*

*-Besides water, what is the rest of the earth's surface? --The rest of
the earth's surface is land.*

Just above the earth's surface is the atmosphere. The atmosphere is a
layer of gases about 500 kilometers thick. These gases include oxygen,
nitrogen and carbon dioxide. This mixture of gases is the air that we
breathe. As we move about the earth's surface, the air gets thinner. At
high altitudes, the air is too thin to breathe. At the edge of the
atmosphere is space. There is no air at all in space.

*-Why can't we breathe at very high altitudes? --The air is too thin.*

*-What is at the upper edge of the atmosphere? --Space.*

*-About how thick is the atmosphere? --It's about 500 kilometer thick.*

Most of the earth's water is in the oceans. The two largest oceans are
the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. Unfortunately, we can't drink ocean
water. This is because ocean water has too much salt. Fortunately there
is also water in lakes and rivers. These water isn't salty so we can
drink it. Only about 2% of the world's water is fresh water. Without
fresh drinking water we can't live. A person can't live for more than a
few days without water.

*-How is fresh water different from ocean water? --Fresh water isn't
salty.*

*-Why can't we drink ocean water? --It has too much salt.*

*One problem with ocean water is that we cannot drink it.*

Rivers are important. Most rivers begin in mountains and end in the
oceans. The water flows from high ground to low ground. At first rivers
are small and are called creeks or streams. As water enters from other
streams, a river grows.

*-Where do most rivers end? --In the oceans.*

*-In which diction do rivers flow? --It flows from high ground to low
ground.*

Some rivers become very large and long. The longest river in the world
is the Nile River, in Africa. It's almost 6500 kilometers long. As for
water volume, the Amazon is the largest river. The volume of water
flowing through it per second is more than in any other river.

*-What is the world's largest river by volume? --The Amazon, in South
America.*

Another use of rivers is for energy. The energy of falling water is used
to produce electricity. This use of water supplies over 20% of the
world's electricity. Rivers are also important for agriculture. Without
water, farmers cannot grow food. And of course rivers can be used for
transportation. Riverboats are used to carry things to inland cities or
lakes.

*-How do farmers depend on rivers? --They are needed to grow food.*

**Vocabulary**

This man goes running 5 days a week if the weather is good.

On the weekends he runs 10 kilometers unless the weather is bad.

This woman really enjoys reading, especially works of fiction.

She has read hundreds of books.

This young couple enjoys watching old movies, such as Titanic.

They both cried when it sank and many people went down with the ship.

These young boys enjoy playing sports on the weekend.

Sometimes they play basketball and sometimes they play football.

This young man eats too much sweet so he is overweight. He need to eat
fewer sweets and exercises more.

***He is overweight because he eats too many sweets.***

Here are six of the earth's seven continents.

Asia is the largest continent both in land and in population.

Asia covers 30% of the earth's land area.

Africa is the second largest continent.

Of all the continent Africa has the youngest population.

Europe is to the west of Asia, and is second smallest continent.

Europe is the birthplace of classical music and some of the world's
greatest art and literature.

North and South America are bordered on the west by the Pacific Ocean
and on the east by the Atlantic Ocean.

The first human beings to live in the Americas came from Asia more the
50000 years ago.

Australia is the world's smallest continent and the world's largest
island. Australia is surrounded by the Indian and Pacific Oceans.

**Dialogue**

M1: Hey, look at that. M2: Look at what?

M1: Look out the window. Do you see the young lady in the red dress?

M2: Yeah, I see her. Wow, she is beautiful and hot. Look at the way she
walks.

M1: Yes, no one behind her. Look in the car that's following her.

M2: I'd rather look at the young lady.

*-What does his opinion about the young lady? --He thinks she's
beautiful and hot.*

*-Where is he supposed to look? --in the car.*

M2: So what's so special about the car?

M1: Look at the driver, do you see one?

M2: No, I don't. There isn't anybody driving the car.

M1: Right. It's one of those new driverless cars.

M2: Maybe it's the woman's car. It's following her.

M1: I don't know. Maybe you are right.

M2: Now that's a smart car. Maybe I'll go outside and follow her too.

M1: Hey, get back to work.

*-Who is driving the car? --no one.*

*-What is the car following? --a young lady.*

Answering machine: Thank you for calling our customer support. Please
listen to the following menu to help us direct your call. Please say or
press 1 to pay your bill. Please say or press 2 to upgrade your service
plan. Please say or press 3 to report a technical problem. Please say or
press 4 if you want to hear this choice again. Customer: I don't want
any of these choices.

*-How does the custom feel? -Angry.*

Answering machine: You may also go to our website for help.

Customer: I went to your website but it didn't help. I want to speak to
a human being. Answering machine: Your business is very important to us.

*-How does the custom feel? --Frustrated.*

Answering machine: Please say or press 5 or hang up to end this call.

Customer: None of these. I want a human being. I want to cancel my
service.

Answering machine: Please wait while we connect you to a service
representative. Customer: Finally. This is what they call customer
service?

*-What is the custom trying to do? --He wants to cancel his service.*

Answering machine: To assist our representative, please say your first
and last name.

Customer: Tom Smith.

Answering machine: We hear Tom Smith. If this is correct, say or press

Answering machine: Thank you. For security purpose, what was your
father's middle name?

Customer: he didn't have a middle name.

Answering machine: Thank you. A customer service representative will be
with you shortly.

*-Why did they want the custom's father's middle name? --To confirm the
customer's identity.*

*-For security purpose means about the same as? --For safety reasons.*

Answering machine: I'm sorry but our offices are closed. Please call
back during business hours. Our business offices are open Monday through
Friday, from 8:00 am until 6:00 pm. Thank you for calling.

## Unit 3

**Part 1**

**Listening**

There are many forms of life on Earth, including human beings. Life
exists in a variety of conditions. Some forms of life live in a watery
environment, like the oceans. Other forms of life can be found in very
dry areas, like deserts. However, for any form of life to exist,
conditions must be right. When conditions are not right, that form of
life will become extinct. To become extinct means to die out completely.

*-What must be right for life to exist?-Conditions.*

*-What happens if conditions are not right? --Life cannot exist.*

Conditions must be right for life to exist. Millions of years ago, there
were forms of life that no longer exist. When conditions changed, these
forms of life died out. One extinction event happened about 250 million
years ago. This was the largest extinction event of all time. Many forms
of life became extinct. 96% of all life in the oceans died out. Most
insects also became extinct. This event happened over a period of
several million years.

*-What happened about 250 million years ago? --Many forms of life became
extinct.*

*-What happens in an extinction event? --Many forms of life became
extinct.*

The causes of this extinction event are still unknown. Possible causes
include large volcanic eruptions and global warming. Some scientists
believe that there were several causes. They believe that a series of
events caused the extinctions. Scientists are working to better
understand what really happened.

*-What is the one possible cause of this event? --Volcanic eruptions.*

In modern times, we humans face changing conditions. For humans to live,
we need clean air and clean water. Pollution is now a growing problem
around the world. Pollution poisons the air and water that we depend on.
Polluted air makes people sick and afraid to go outside. Polluted water
poisons our food supply. As a result, we never know which foods are safe
to eat. Human beings cannot live in a poisoned environment.

Therefore, pollution is a major threat to our existence.

*-What do humans need to live? --Clean air and clean water.*

*-What poisons the air and water? --Pollution.*

Humans need temperatures to be in a comfortable range. To be in a
comfortable range means to be neither too hot nor too cold. With global
warming, global temperatures are rising. As temperatures rise, the polar
icecaps will melt. As the polar ice caps melt, ocean levels will rise.
Areas of some countries will soon be under water. People will be forced
to relocate from flooded areas.

*-As temperatures rise, what will happen to the polar icecaps? --The
polar icecaps will melt.*

*-As the polar icecaps melt, what will happen? --Ocean levels will
rise.*

In nature, even small changes can sometimes have large effects. It's
difficult to predict what's going to happen. The entire ecosystem that
we depend on is changing. Some of these changes are irreversible.
Irreversible changes cannot be undone.

*-What can small changes sometimes cause? --Large effects.*

*-What is happening to the world's ecosystem? --Ecosystem is changing.*

Let's hope that humans are smart enough to understand how the world is
changing. With more understanding, we can make better choices about what
to do. We can face the challenges of pollution and global warming. We
need to do this before it's too late.

This planet Earth is our only home and we need to protect it.

*-What challenges do we need to face? --Pollution and global warming. We
need to protect the environment that supports us.*

**Vocabulary**

Mammals are covered by hair or fur, have a backbone, and are warm
blooded.

All female mammals produce milk for their young.

Reptiles are covered by scales, and includes snakes, lizards and
turtles.

Reptiles have a backbone and are cold blooded, which means they often
relied on the external source of heat.

Birds are covered by feathers and are warm blooded.

Most birds can fly and many types of birds migrate great distances.

Most insects such as ants and bees have a small three part of body with
three pairs of legs.

Some insects, like mosquitoes, spread diseases that cause the deaths of
many humans.

Unlike animals, plants get the energy that they need from the sun.

Plants convert light energy, along with carbon dioxide and water, into
chemical energy.

*Insects don't have a backbone and most are cooled-blooded.*

*Insects such as ants and bees live in well-organized colonies.*

*Mosquitoes cause the deaths of more humans than any other animal.*

*Mammals include some of the most intelligent animals on earth, such as
elephants and human beings.*

Scales and rulers are used to measure weight and length.

Units of weight include kilograms and pounds, and units of length
include centimeters and inches.

These instruments are used to observe very large and very small objects.

Telescopes are used to by astronomers and microscopes are used by
biologists and doctors.

These appliances are used in the kitchens of almost every home.

Stoves are used to heat food and refrigerators are used to keep foods
cool or cold.

Household tools like these are used to build and repair things.

Hammers are used to pound in nails and screwdrivers are used to turn a
scow.

***If you need to pound in a nail, use a hammer.***

**Dialogue**

W: do you know what day it is today?

M: what do you mean? Is it a special day?

W: oh, so you don't remember.

M: remember what? What's so special?

W: it's our anniversary. We started dating a year ago today. M: oh,
really, I'm sorry.

*-When did they first start dating? --A year ago.*

M: just a minute. What do you think this is?

W: oh, it's a necklace.

M: do you like it?

W: yes, I do. It's lovely, especially the red heart. May I put it on?

M: no, let me do it.

*-What did he give her? --A necklace.*

W: so you did remember.

M: of course I remembered. It's a very special day for both of us.

W: I have something for you too.

M: you do?

W: yes, but it will have to wait until later.

M: oh, I can't wait. Tell me what it is.

*-What would have to wait until later? --She's going to give him a
gift.*

*Do you know what today is?*

W: can you guess what it is?

M: could you give me a hint?

W: we went there six month ago.

M: oh, you mean Alfredo's.

W: yes, are you excited? You said you really like the food there.

M: yes, that's true. I also remember the dessert. Do you?

W: yes, but let's not talk about that now. Let's now ruin the surprise.

*-What is Alfredo's? --A restaurant.*

*-What aren't they going to talk about? --They aren't going to talk
about the desert.*

*He remembered that today is their anniversary*

W: That restaurant looks nice.

M: Yes, but it looks expensive.

W: Let's go in and look the menu. Wow the menu looks great, especially
the fish. M: Yes, it looks good, but look at those prices.

*-What doesn't she like about the menu? --She likes the food choices.*

M: Let's try somewhere else.

W: Sometimes it's ok to spend a little money.

M: Yes, but these prices are a bit too high, don't you think?

W: Yes, there are a bit high. But don't you think I'm worth it? Let's
enjoy ourselves.

M: Ah, ok, if you put it that way. Let's see if we can get a table. W:
I'm glad you have your credit card.

M: I sure hope the food is good.

W: Stop worrying. Let's just enjoy.

*-Who is going to pay the bill? --He will pay the bill.*

*-How is he going to pay? --He is going to use his credit card. He is
worried about spending so much money.*

**Part 2**

**Listening**

QuickServe is a home repair company. It provides quick, reliable repair
services to homes. QuickServe handles plumbing and electrical issues, 24
hours a day. It also cleans roofs, fixes internet connections and
replaces broken windows. For a small fee, customers subscribe to the
service. Its main customers are the elderly, which means older people.
Whenever customers have a problem, they can call for help. There is also
a small service charge for each service call.

*-What kind of services does QuickServe provide? --Home repair services*

The company was established 5 years ago and is growing rapidly. It
started in one city but is now in 5 cities. The company plans to expand
to 10 cities within the next 24 months. In each city there is a small
central office in the low-rent area of the city. The central office
handles the business, advertising, payroll and billing. It also takes
calls from customers, either on line or by telephone. It takes calls 24
hours a day, 7 days a week.

*-When was the company established? --It started five years ago.*

*-Where does the company locate its central offices? --They locate in
low-rent areas.*

60% of the company's employees work from their homes. When a customer
calls into central office, a service employee is contracted. The service
employee then contracts the customer and signs up an appointment.

These service employees are highly trained and provide excellent
service. In emergencies, such as a serious plumbing problem, service can
be provided within an hour. One reason for this is that the service
employees live in different parts of the city.

They are not centrally located so it's quicker and easier for them to
travel to a customer's home.

*-Where do 60% of the company's employees work? --From their own homes.*

QuickServe has an excellent reputation. Its prices are reasonable and
its services are quick and efficient. The company's service employees
are clean, polite and efficient. In this type of business, person to
person contact is the key to success. With each satisfied customer, more
customers subscribe. Satisfied customers recommend QuickServe to their
friends. This kind of word of mouth advertising is very cost effective.
Cost effective means that the results are good without paying a high
price. In other words, quality service provides its own reward to the
company.

*-What kind of customers recommend QuickServe to their friends?
--Satisfied customers.*

*-What kind of reputation does the company have? --It has an excellent
reputation.*

The company takes great pride in being honest with its customers. There
are no hidden charges for their services. As a result, the number of
customers in each city is growing rapidly. With the aging population
there are more elderly people who need home repair services. These
people need to have confidence in the service provider. They don't want
to be cheated. These people don't mind to pay a reasonable fee for high
quality service. High quality service should be rewarded.

*-What should be rewarded? --High quality service.*

*-What is the company pride of? --It's honest with its customers.*

The company provides a range of service plans, each with the different
subscription plans. The least expensive service plan is called the basic
plan. This plan provides non-emergency services with a very low service
charge. The most expensive service plan is their VIP plan. The VIP plan
provides emergency services 24 hours a day with no additional service
charge. It also provides rebates to customers who don't call for any
services during the year. In addition, QuickServe gives bonus points to
customers for each year they subscribe. These bonus points can be used
to buy new appliances such as stoves and refrigerators.

*-What kind of service plans does the company provide? --It has a range
of plans.*

*-What can bonus points be used for? --Buying new appliances.*

If the business continues to grow, the owners may decide to take the
company public. This means that the public can buy shares of the
company. It will then change from a privately-owned company to a public
company. The owners believe that their business is successful and can
expand around the world. They also believe that taking their company
public can make them rich.

*-Why do the owners want to take their company public? --They can become
rich.*

**Vocabulary**

Biology is the study of life, including its structure and evolution.

Biologists study how life survives and reproduces.

Chemistry is the study of matter, including the structure of atoms and
molecule.

Chemists study how various substances interact with each other.

Astronomy is one of the oldest sciences.

Astronomers study the structure and evolution of the universe, including
the study of stars, planets, and galaxies.

Geology is the study of the structure and history of the Earth and the
other planets.

Geologists study different types of rocks, earthquakes, and different
layers of the Earth.

Mathematic is the study of numbers, shapes, patterns and change.
Mathematic is used by all other branches of science.

Here are some types of terrible events that hurt or kill people.

Earthquakes are caused by forces deep within the Earth.

During earthquakes, many people are often killed by collapsing buildings
and bridges.

Floods happen when rivers rise and overflow their banks.

Flood waters damage or destroy many houses and businesses.

Fires destroy buildings, land and forests.

There are many causes for fire, including lightning.

In a hurricane, high winds destroy buildings, and sometime cause
flooding.

Some hurricanes have winds of more than 200 miles an hour.

Car accidents happen when cars collide, or when drivers lose control of
their cars. One of the main causes of car accidents is driving too fast.

*When people are not careful, they can start fires that can cause a lot
of damage.*

**Dialogue**

W: What's in the big box you are carrying?

M: It's a new desk. I just bought it and now I have to put it together.

W: Do you need any help?

M: No, I don't think so. I just need to get my tools. I'll need a
screwdriver and maybe a hammer.

W: Don't forget to read the instructions.

*-What does he need? --Some tools.*

W: How are things going?

M: I'm almost finished.

W: Something doesn't look right to me. The right side is higher than the
left side.

M: Oh, you are right. It looks like I put a couple of screws into the
wrong places.

*-What doesn't look right? --The desk.*

W: So now you have to take it apart.

M: Great. And I thought I was almost finished.

W: I told you to read the instructions. Did you read them?

M: No, I didn't read them. I hate to read instructions. I looked them,
but they were confusing.

W: Well, this is what happens when you don't. You were too impatient.
Anyway, what can I do to help you?

M: Would you get another screwdriver and help me unscrew some of these
screws?

W: Ok, but next time please read the instructions.

*-What didn't he do? --Read the instructions.*

*-What was wrong with the instructions? --They were confusing.*

W: Do you ever look up at the sky and think about life and universe?

M: I did when I was a kid. But I don't do that for as much anymore. Why
do you ask?

W: Sometimes I feel like I lost in day-to-day details. Then when I look
up at the sky, I see the big picture. I appreciate things more, even the
little things.

*-What happens when she sees the big picture? --She appreciates things
more.*

*-What doesn't he do so much anymore? --He doesn't think about life and
universe.*

M: You sound like a philosopher or a poet. I felt like that too when I
was a kid.

W: Don't you feel like that anymore?

M: No, I don't. In fact, I try not to. When I think about things too
deeply, I get depressed. It's even a bit frightening.

W: Really? For me, it's just the opposite. Everything seems like a
wonderful miracle.

M: Doesn't that frighten you a bit? The universe is so large and we are
so small.

*-What happens when he thinks too deeply? --He gets depressed.*

W: What I realize is how little we understand. We just need to
appreciate our lives and not get lost.

M: Sometimes being lost isn't so bad. Do you the expression, ignorance
is bliss?

W: Sure, I've heard it many times. To be ignorant is to be happy.

*-What does the word bliss mean? --Complete happiness.*

*-What does she realize? --There is a lot that we don't understand.*

M: Maybe it's true. Maybe it's best not to think or know too much.

W: No, that's not for me. I want to understand as much as possible.
That's why I became a scientist.

M: Well, I respect your choice, but it's not for me. If understanding is
painful, I'd rather not understand.

*-Why does she become a scientist? --She wants to understand as much as
possible. -What doesn't he agree with? --Her choice.*

**Part 3**

**Listening**

Harry is on a business trip. Yesterday he was supposed to fly from San
Francisco to Shanghai. However, things didn't turn out the way they were
supposed to. In fact, nothing went the way it was supposed to.
Everything went wrong and he didn't get on his flight. As a result, he
is still in San Francisco.

*-What was he supposed to do yesterday? --Fly to Shanghai.*

*-When was Harry supposed to fly to Shanghai? --Yesterday.*

The following is the summary of what happened. Yesterday morning he got
up as usual and had breakfast. Everything seemed to be fine and he was
looking forward to the trip. He was just about to check out of his hotel
when he felt a pain. It was a pain in his lower back. It was a doll pain
at first, not too bad. So he didn't worry about it and he checked out of
the hotel. Then he got on a shuttle bus to the airport.

*-Where was the pain located? --It was a pain in his lower back.*

*-Why didn't he worry about the pain? --It wasn't too bad at first.*

About half way to the airport, the pain in his back started to get
worse. It was a growing pain, and he was beginning to worry. Soon it was
difficult for him to sit in the seat. The pain was getting worse. He
wanted to lie down. He started to sweat and breathe quickly. He was in
real pain then. On a scale of 1 to 10, the pain was an 8.

*-How was the pain changing? --It was getting worse.*

*-Why did he want to lie down? --It was difficult for him to sit in the
seat.*

When the bus got to the airport the bus driver helped him get off. It
was difficult for him to walk but he finally made it to the terminal.
Inside the terminal he went to the man's bath room. He went to the
toilet but that didn't help. Instead of improving he felt dizzy and he
threw up. By now he was wet for all the sweating. He knew he couldn't
get on his flight.

*-How did he feel after he went to the toilet? --He felt dizzy and
sick.*

*-Where did he go once he got inside the terminal? --He went to the
men's bathroom.*

He used his phone to call the airline. He explained the situation and
cancelled his reservation. Then he called 911 for emergency help. 911 is
the emergency number to call for help in the United State.

*-What did he do to his reservation? --He cancelled it.*

*-Why did he call 911? --He called 911 for emergency help.*

An ambulance arrived about 10 minutes after he called. By then he was in
so much pain that he could barely walk. Once inside the ambulance they
gave him oxygen to help him breathe. But the pain was still terrible.
Then they drove him into a hospital near the airport. Luckily the
hospital was on his health plan. That means his health insurance is
supposed to pay for everything. Medical costs in the United States are
very high.

*-Who was supposed to pay for his medicine care? --His health insurance
company.*

*-What did they give him inside the ambulance? --They gave him oxygen to
help him breathe.*

When he arrived at the hospital he was taken into the emergency room.
After some test a doctor told him he had a kidney stone. It was a very
small stone but it caused a lot of pain. It was passing through a small
turbine his body from his kidney to his bladder. The pain would go away
once it got to his bladder. Until then he had to get pain medicine to
reduce the pain.

*-Where was he taken when he got to the hospital? --He was taken to the
emergency room.*

*-What did he take to control his pain? --Some pain medicine.*

Harry didn't have to stay at the hospital for very long. With the pain
medicine the pain went away very quickly. He took a taxi back to his
hotel and checked in for another night. Then he called the airline and
made reservation for another flight. The flight will leave tomorrow.
Until then he'll just rest in his hotel. There may even be a good movie
to watch.

*-Where will he be until his next flight? --He'll stay in his hotel.*

*-What is he going to do until his next flight? --He is going to have
some rest.*

So when you are travelling, please be prepared for emergencies. Make
sure you have medicine insurance. You never know when something like
this can happen to you. So be prepared.

*-What should you have before travelling? --Medicine insurance. It's a
good idea to have medicine insurance before travelling.*

**Vocabulary**

Solar energy is one of the cleanest and most plentiful sources of
energy.

Solar power depends on sunlight, so in cloudy weather and at night, no
power is generated.

Wind energy is nonpolluting but is only useful in place where there is a
lot of wind.

Wind turbines convert the connect energy of the wind into mechanical
power.

Nuclear energy is efficient and doesn't produce carbon gases as a waste
product.

The dangers of nuclear power include deadly radioactive waste products.

A major source of energy comes from the burning of fossil fuels, such as
coal and oil.

When we burn fossil fuels, waste gases such as CO2 are produced.

Fossil fuels remain the largest source of energy for most countries.

Hydropower comes from the kinetic energy of falling water.

Output is reliable and can be regulated to meet the demand, except
during the periods of drought.

*One of the main problems we face is how to reduce the use of the fossil
fuels to produce energy.*

*We need to reduce the use of the fossil fuels to produce energy. Dams
are expensive to build and affect wildlife such as fish.*

Here are some different types of words in English.

Words that are nouns or pronouns are used to represent objects.

A noun or a pronoun can be a person, an animal or a thing, including an
idea.

Verbs are used to express actions, such as to sit down, or stand up.

We also use verbs to express relationships, such as to love someone or
to own something.

We used adjectives to describe objects, such as a tall building.

Adjectives are used with nouns and pronouns, but not with verbs.

We use adverbs to describe actions, such as to run fast or walk slowly.

Adverbs express the quality of an action, such as how well or poorly
something is done.

We use conjunctions to connect things or actions, such as to read and
write. Conjunctions include words such as and, or, because, but, and
yet.

*Nouns and pronouns can be used to represent any object.*

**Dialogue**

W: Hey, I've got some news, some good news and some bad news.

M: OK, give me the bad news first.

W: We are moving to a new office.

M: When is this going to happen?

W: We are supposed to move at the end of next month.

M: How far away is the new office?

W: We are not sure yet. But it will mean a longer commute for most of
us. The new office will probably be on the other side of the city.

M: The commute is already too long for me and I'm not going to change
flats. We just bought one.

*-What did he just but? --He just bought a new flat.*

*-How is the move going to affect the commute? --It'll make the commute
longer for most of the employees.*

M: Anyway, what's the good news?

W: The good news is that we are going to expand. The company is growing
so we are going to hire more people. M: Well, I've got some news for you
too.

W: I hope it's a good news.

M: Well, that depends on your point of view. I'm planning to start my
own business.

W: Why? I thought you were happy working here.

M: I like the work, but I'm not learning anything new. I think I can do
better on my own.

*-Why is the company going to hire more people? --The company is
growing.*

M: I was planning to wait a few months. But now that the office is
moving, I'm ready to make the change.

W: What is your wife think?

M: She's in fever of it and she will help me. She's already designing a
website. We'll work from home at first.

W: So you really are serious about this? You're taking a big risk. Most
new businesses fail. M: Yes, I know, but if I don't do it now, I never
will. I'm tired of working for others. W: I know what you mean.

*-What does his wife think his decision? --She's in favor of it.*

*-What is he serious about? --He is serious about starting his own
business.*

M: Don't tell anyone about this, OK? It's still a secret.

W: Sure, I won't say anything to anybody. I'm sure this will come as a
surprise to everyone.

M: I'm sure changing offices will also come as a surprise to people.
This is exactly why I want to work on my own. I don't like these kinds
of surprises.

W: You are right about that. When are you going to let people know? M:
I'll make the announcement at the beginning of next month.

*-What is a secret? --His decision to leave the company.*

*-When is he going to let people know about his decision to leave?
--He'll announce his decision at the beginning of next month.*

**Part 4**

**Listening**

Leonardo Da Vinci is one of the greatest geniuses of all time.

He was a painter, an architect, an engineer and a scientist.

He was born in Vinci, Italy in 1452.

Vinci is a town just outside the great Italian city, Florence.

His name Da Vinci means of Vinci.

Leonardo's father was a lawyer and a landowner and his mother was a
pesent. Leonardo's parents were never married to each other.

*-How long were his parents married? --They were never married.*

*-Where was he born? --In Vinci, Italy.*

Leonardo lived with his mother until he was around 5 years old.

When he was 5, he moved into the home of his father.

By then, his father had married a 16-year-old girl.

Leonardo's mother married another man and moved to another town.

She had many more children after that, with several different men. In
the end, Leonardo had more than 15 half-sisters and brothers.

*-With whom did he live when he was 5? --His mother.*

As a young man, Da Vinci didn't go to school.

He was educated at home in reading, writing and mathematics.

In other subjects, he was mostly self-educated.

He had access to books at his father's home.

Leonardo spent a lot of time outdoors and developed a strong interest in
nature.

He loved to observe things, especially birds.

He was also interested in the properties of water.

*-What did he have access to at home? --Books at his father's home.*

*-In what did he develop a strong interest? --He developed a strong
interest in nature.*

Leonardo's early drawings and paintings demonstrated a rare talent.

His father and his father's friend recognized his talent and encouraged
him.

When he was 15, he was sent to Florence.

In Florence, he became an apprentice to a famous master painter.

For the next few years Leonardo worked at his master's workshop.

It wasn't long before his ability surpassed that of his master.

Some people say that his master became jealous about Leonardo's greatest
talent.

They say that the master vowed to never paint again.

In 1478, with his father's help, Leonardo set up his own workshop.

*-Who became jealous with Leonardo's talent? --His master in Florence.*

In 1482, he entered the service of a powerful man in the city of Milan.

This man was the duke of Milan.

For the next few years, Leonardo designed buildings, machinery and
weapons of war.

Weapons were important because Italy was constantly at war during this
period.

From 1485 to 1490, Leonardo produced designs for a variety of weapons.

In his notes, he predicted the development of advanced weapons such as
submarines and flying machines. In 1499, the French invaded Italy, and
Leonardo left Milan.

*-Why did Leonardo live Milan? --The French invaded Italy.*

*-Who did Leonardo work for in Milan? --He worked for the duke of
Milan.*

All together Leonardo spent 17 years in Milan.

During this period he spent much of his time studying in nature.

He dissected bodies, both human and animal, to study an illustrate
anatomy.

His detailed illustrations are masterpieces.

Leonardo filled many notebooks with drawings and ideas.

He wrote backwards so you need a mirror to read them.

*-Why do you need a mirror to read his notebooks? --He wrote backwards.
He left Milan because the French invaded Italy.*

After 1500, Leonardo spent time in a number of Italian cities.

He worked very slowly and the range of his interests was very wide.

As a result Leonardo left many paintings and projects unfinished.

One painting that he did finish was the Mona Lisa, one of the world's
most famous paintings.

People are still interested in this painting, 500 years after he painted
it.

Though there are many theories nobody knows who the woman in the
painting really was.

*-Why did Leonardo leave so many projects unfinished? --He worked slowly
and had a wide range of interests.*

*-Who was the woman in the painting? --Nobody knows for sure.*

In 1516, Leonardo left Italy for good when the French King, Francis I
(the first), offered him a position. There he had a freedom to paint and
draw whatever he wanted. Leonardo died in 1519 at the age of 67. Some
said that the French king who had become a close friend was with him
when he died. He was buried in the church which was destroyed during the
French revolution. The exact location of his remains is unknown.

*-How old was he when he died? --He died at the age of 67.*

*-Who offered Leonardo a position in 1516? --The king of France.*

**Vocabulary**

Waste water and carbon gases from farm animals are bad for the
environment.

Animals waste and other chemicals flow into the ground and pollute water
supplies.

Exhaust gases from automobiles are a major cause of air pollution and
global warming.

As a result many companies are trying to produce more efficient and
cleaner cars.

Pesticides and fertilizers are used by farmers to grow crops such as
fruits and vegetables.

These chemicals pollute water supplies when they flow into the ground or
rivers.

Factories like this one allow harmful chemicals to get into the air or
water.

Companies need to try harder to protect the environment and our health.

Nuclear waste products are radioactive and can pollute the environment
for thousands of years. They need to be safely transported and stored in
a safe place.

***Nuclear waste products need to be stored in a safe place.***

The British writer, Jane Austin, was born in England in 1775, one of
seven children.

She wrote some of the most popular love stories of all time.

One of the most famous female rulers in history, Cleopatra had affairs
with Julius Caesar and later with Mark Antony.

She was known for her great beauty and charming voice.

Born in 1756, Mozart composed and performed some of the world's greatest
classical music.

He was the youngest of 7 children and by the age of 5, he was already
composing music.

The sun of the king, Alexander the great, was the military leader who
created one of the largest empires in the ancient world.

As a youth, Alexander was taught by the Greek philosopher Aristotle.

Mohandas Gandy was a 20^th^ century leader who used non-violent
resistance to lead India to independence. Gandy dedicated his life to
the pursuit of truth.

***Mozart started writing music as a young child.***

**Dialogue**

M: I'd like to speak with Mr. Bennett, please.

W: I'm sorry, but he's not here right now. Would you like to leave a
voice message?

M: It's urgent that I speak with him. It's an emergency.

W: Oh, I see. What kind of emergency?

M: It's very personal so I can't give you any details.

*-What does the word urgent mean? --Need quick attention.*

*-Why doesn't he want to leave a voice message? --It's an urgent
matter.*

W: Without any details I'm afraid I can't give you his number. Give me
your number and I'll let him know about your call. Then maybe he'll call
you back, would that be okay?

M: Sure, my number is 5834987. It would be great if he could call me
within the next half hour.

*-Why doesn't she give out Mr. Bennett's number? --She needs more
details.*

M1: That was a great dinner. Here, put away your wallet, I'll the bill.

M2: You paid last time, this time is my turn to pay.

M1: Hey, you don't have a job, and I do, let me pay.

M2: Thanks for the offer, but I can handle it.

*-Why does he want to pay? --It's his turn to pay.*

M1: Wait, let's flip for it.

M2: Flip for it? What does that mean?

M1: Do you see this corn? This side is heads and the opposite is tails.
I'll flip up in the air. If it comes down with heads facing up, I'll
pay. If tails are the up, you can pay.

M2: OK, that's fine with me.

*-How are they going to decide who is going to pay? --They are going to
flip a corn.*

M1: Look, it's heads up, so I'll pay.

M2: Thanks, it's very nice of you.

M1: It's my pleasure.

W: Do you want anything else, Sir? Would you like to see the desserts
menu?

M: No, thanks, I'm ready for the check. Here is my credit card.

W: I'm sorry, Sir, but we don't take credit cards.

M: You're joking, right?

W: No, sir. I'm not joking. Do you see that sign? It says cash only.

M: I didn't see it when I came in. I don't have enough cash to pay the
bill.

*-How did he plan to pay? --He planned to pay by credit card.*

*-Why can't he pay? --He doesn't have enough cash.*

W: There is a bank down the street. If you let me hold your driver's
license, you can go and get the cash.

M: OK, I hope the bank is open.

W: The bank is closed, but you can use the ATM to get your cash.

*-Where can he get the cash? --He can get the cash at an ATM down the
street. He has to leave his driver's license with the waiter.*
