# LEVEL 6

## Unit 1



Listening

Harry bitchem works for a high-tech German company, based in Munich.

Last month he was in an automobile accident.

He was on his way to attend an important meeting in New York City.

He had just arrived on a flight from London and was taking a taxi into
the city.

*The purpose of his trip was to attend a meeting.*

The weather was terrible and the road was icy.

He was in a hurry so he asked the taxi driver to get him into the city
as soon as possible.

The taxi driver agreed and sped up. But just as they left the airport,
the car went out of control.

It spun around and skidded into the path of an oncoming truck.

Fortunately, the truck wasn't going too fast, so nobody was killed.

But the taxi was severely damaged and both passangers were injured.

*The accident wouldn't have happened had the weather been better.*

*Had the weather been better the accident wouldn't have happened*

*If the weather hadn't been bad, the accident probably wouldn't have
happened.*

The taxi driver survived with only a few injuries because he was wearing
a seatbelt.

The taxi's airbag had also deployed, absorbing much of the impact.

However, Harry, who is in the back seat, hadn't put on his seatbelt.

As a result, he was severely injured and had to be rush to a hospital.

*Had he put on his seatbelt, he might not have been injured so badly.*

Now a month later Harry still can't remember much of what happened.

When he first woke up in the hospital it was several hours after the
accident and he was sure where he was.

The bad news was that he couldn't move his legs.

This was because his back had been broken in the accident.

The doctors later told him that he might never regain the use of his
legs.

Some of the nerves in his spain and legs had been damaged but everything
else was OK.

*He couldn't move his legs because his back had been broken in the
accident.*

Now Harry is trying to figure out what to do.

If he works hard and exercises every day there is still a chance that
his legs will recover on their own.

There are also some new treatments that might help his nerves
regenerate.

Still he should be prepared for the long recovery and the possibility
that he might never walk again.

Without the use of his legs he wouldn't be able to continue working in
the same way.

It wouldn't be possible to travel so he would have to find another way
to attend meetings. Either that or he would have to look for another way
to make a living.

*If he regains the use of his legs, he'll be able to continue working in
the same way.*

Harry has good disability insurance so money won't be a problem for a
while.

But sooner or later he wants to be able to earn a living again.

Of course he isn't planning to give up on his legs.

If he works hard he might still be able to regain their use and learn to
walk again. Some of his nerves had been damaged but there is a chance
that they will heal.

The new drugs being developed might make it possible for the nerves to
grow back. Still he has to face the possibility that nothing will work.

*If he wants to regain the use of his legs he'll have to work hard.*

However happens Harry is determined to think positively.

Even if he can't walk he can still attend meetings all over the world.

With new technology he would be anywhere and there is much of that he
could still do.

Luckily he still has the use of his arms and hands and his brain is
still functioning.

With the right attitude he can find a way forward.

There is no reason for despair or feeling sorry for oneself.

That kind of thinking won't solve anything.

He just hope that his company or another company will give him the
chance to prove himself. He can still be a valuable asset for them, come
with me.

*He has a positive attitude toward life and is determined to prove
himself.*

Dialogue

W: Hey, what do you think? Do you like it?

M: No, it's too short. You can't wear that to the office. If you do,
nobody will be able to concentrate.

W: What about this one?

M: That's the right length, but I hate the color. I hate pink.

W: OK, I'll see if they have it another color, but it isn't cheap.

M: It's OK if you don't buy anything else for a while. W: Sure, this
will last for a while.

M: Well, I'm glad you like your dress. It looks great on you.

W: You should get some new clothes too. You never buy anything for
yourself.

M: I have an expensive girlfriend now, so I can't afford it. And besides
I don't the time to go shopping.

W: What are you doing? Are you staring at that woman?

M: What? No, of course not.

W: Yes, you were. You were staring at her. How do you think it makes me
feel?

M: I was just looking in that direction.

W: No, you were staring at her for several seconds. M: I'm sorry but I
couldn't help it.

W: I've told you many time to stop that. And if you are going to stare,
you shouldn't do it like that, so obvious and rude.

M: OK. What's the best way to stare?

W: don't stare for 4 or 5 seconds. Just take a quick looks, 2 seconds
long. Then it isn't so obvious.

M: Sorry, My eyes just went there. I'm program like that. W: That's no
excuse.

W: And don't ever tell me you don't like pink again. She is wearing
pink. Why is it that pink is so bad on me when you can't help staring at
someone who is wearing pink?

M: I didn't notice that she is wearing pink.

W: Ah, so the clothes don't matter. She is more attractive than I am.
Why don't you go sit with her?

M: Hey, come on, let's not get into a fight.

W: I thought you were getting better. But you never change. You just had
to runling the evening.

M: Hey, come on, I'm sorry.

W: No, don't say anything, I don't want to hear it.

*In this exchange, we see a lovers' quarrel.*

*He can't afford to buy new clothes for himself because he spends a lot
on his girlfriend.*

Reading

**The Boy Who Cried Wolf**

Once upon a time there was a mischievous young boy who was given the
task of tending a herd of sheep on a hillside near a village. The boy
grew tired and board while watching the sheep, so he found ways to amuse
himself, such as climbing trees or chasing sheep. One day he came up
with what he thought was a brilliant idea. He climbed to the top of a
tree and shouted toward the village: "Wolf! Wolf! Help me please!"

When the villagers heard his cries for help, they rushed up the hill to
rescue him and chase the wolf away. Of course, when they got there,
there was no wolf to be seen, and the boy, who was still in the tree,
was laughing. The sheep were grazing peacefully. Annoyed, the villagers
returned to the village and back to their normal activities.

A few days later, the boy grew bored again and played the same trick on
the villagers. This time the villagers were furious at the boy. That
night he was punished by his mother for his bad behavior.

For a while after that, life went on as normal and the boy behaved. He
didn't want to be punished again. Then, one afternoon while he was
tending the sheep, he noticed that she sheep were bleating and nervous.
He didn't know what was causing their strange behavior, so he climbed a
tree to see if he could determine what was going on. What he saw from
the tree was a frightening sight, a big, hairy wolf chasing after the
sheep. Terrified, he screamed for help: "Wolf, Wolf! There's a wolf
chasing the sheep!"

This time, when the villagers heard his cries for help, they were
convinced that it was another one of his pranks. Nobody believed that
there was really a wolf, so they ignored his frantic calls for help. The
wolf, having nothing to fear, feasted on several of the sheep and then
slipped back into the forest.

*The villagers were annoyed when the boy fooled them the first time. He
learned that lying to others can have serious consequences.*

**Survival in the Outback**

What would you do if you ever found yourself lost in the wild? To find
out, you can join a weekend survival course in Australia's Outback
Desert. This vast area is famous for its harsh desert climate. To
survive, your first task will be to find water, a rare commodity in the
desert. Animals such as ants and seed-eating birds are strong indicators
of water. You can also cut and suck moisture from the roots and leaves
of plants. Trees like the desert oak have roots near the surface. But be
careful. The branches of gum trees are a rich source of water, but the
leaves are poisonous, so don't eat them. The best place to build a
shelter is in an area with a least around of sunlight, like between sand
dunes or in a trench. To make a trench, dig a hole big enough to lie
down in and use the extra sand to create a barrier or wall on each side.
This can help to shield you from the glare and scorching heat of the
sun. Nights can be cold, so knowing how to make a fire is essential. One
way to build a fire is to use the hand drill method. This is one of the
oldest and simplest ways to start a fire. It involves rolling a stick
between your hands while pressing it onto a notched piece of wood with
dry tinder below. The idea is to use friction to create enough heat to
ignite the tinder. This can be a lot of work,

As for food, you'll have to be open-minded. Some forms of life can be
ugly to look at but can provide you with enough protein to survive. They
may even taste good, like scrambled eggs!

*If you are lost in the desert, your first task will be to find water.*



Listening

Now that you studying English at a high level, you need to be able to
talk about the language itself.

One of the biggest areas of confusion for students is the difference
between the past tense and the present perfect.

The past tense is indicated by use of past tense smarker, represented
here by V sub d.

Here are some examples of regular verbs and their past tense forms.

So, as you can see, for regular verbs, the past tense form is indicated
by addition of an "ed" at the end of the verb. However, some of the most
common verbs in English are irregular, so it's important to learn them.

Here are some examples.

Altogether, there are over 200 regular verbs in normal use.

Many people think that the past tense form only indicates past time.

However, that is only one of the possible meanings.

The past tense form is also used to express something that is unlikely
or imaginary, from the speaker's point of view.

Here is an example: "He wishes he had a car."

The fact is that he doesn't have a car, so the use of "had" indicates
that it isn't real, it's imaginary.

If he had a car, he could drive us to school.

Again, he doesn't have a car, so he can't drive us to school.

This condition expresses something that isn't a fact.

It's a counter-factual condition, which means it goes against where we
know or believe.

Look at these two sentences.

If she waits another week, she can save money...

If she waited for another week, she could save money because there's
going to be a sale.

Both sentences are correct, but there's difference in meaning.

In the top sentence the condition that she waits is more likely from the
speaker's point of view. In the bottom sentence the speaker thinks it's
less likely that she is going to wait.

*If that flight left a few minutes later, we could take the next shuttle
bus.*

*If that flight leaves on time, we are going to miss it, so let's run.*

*If that flight leaves on time, the next shuttle bus may not get us to
the airport on time.*

*If that flight left an hour later, we wouldn't have to get to the
airport so early tomorrow morning.*

*He wishes he had a car, but he doesn't have enough money to buy one.*

*There was a big sale last week, so we all went shopping.*

*I wish we didn't have to run, but if we don't hurry, we'll miss the
next bus.*

*There's going to be a sale next week, so I hope she doesn't go shopping
tomorrow.*

When we talk about experience or results, we use past perfect form.

This form uses "have" followed by the participle.

For regular verbs, these participle are identical to the past tense
form.

For irregular verbs, these participle are often different.

When we use the perfect form, the primary focus on the subject of the
sentence, not the verb.

It emphasizes condition, experience or result, rather than actions or
events.

In these two examples we see the contrast.

*She has already left hotel.*

*She left the hotel a few minutes ago.*

The top sentence gives the condition or state of the subject, and the
bottom sentence expresses an event.

The top sentence describes the condition of the subject of the sentence
"she" rather than the event.

The fact that she has left the hotel is now part of her experience or
state of being.

The bottom sentence expresses the action or event, she left, which is
something she did.

In general, the past tense form expresses events or acts, and the
perfect form expresses experience or conditions. When we use the perfect
form of the verb, we focus on the state of the subject, and not an
action or event.

*He enjoyed his studies and graduated a few months ago. Now that he had
graduated, he's ready to get a job.*

Note that the past form expresses the events that are persific points or
periods of time, such as the last year or past five years.

*He worked at several companies. (in the past)*

*He finished the project last week. (in the past, last week)*

These events are distance from the speaker's point of view.

The perfect form expresses something from the speaker's point of view,
not distance in time.

*He has worked at several companies. (his experience now)*

*He has finished the project. (his experience now)*

These two sentences are incorrect and confusing because they give two
different points of view.

*He has worked at the company until last week. (incorrect)*

*He has finished the project last week. (incorrect and confusing)*

Here are some sentences that use the perfect form.

*He has finished practicing.*

*He has been practicing.*

*She may have eaten.*

*Her computer may have been stolen.*

Some are simple, such as the first one, and some are complex, like the
last one.

The last one is complex because it combines many verb forms, including
the passive.

*He must have taken her computer with him.*

*He have practiced hard, so he should do well in the competition.*

*He took his computer with him because he wants to work at home.*

*He may have taken his computer with him, but I'm not sure if he did or
not.*

*He may have been travelling when he got sick.*

*It might have been broken by the accident.*

*He may have been arrested by the police.*

*The fire might have been started by someone.*

*He may have been injur*

Dialogue

What are you thinking about?

You look so pensive.

I was just thinking about how much things have changed since I was a
child.

Oh, sometimes I think about that too.

What were your thoughts?

Nostalgic for sure.

Generally I remember the best times, and then I get a bit depressed when
I think about how things have changed.

What kinds of changes depress you?

Well, one thing is the pace of life.

Everything is so fast paced now, so there isn\'t enough time to think.

That\'s because you\'ve grown up.

You\'re not a child anymore, so you have responsibilities.

It\'s more than just having responsibilities.

My parents had to work, but they also had time for other things.

My dad used to go fishing on the weekends, and my mom used to work in
her garden.

She loved to grow flowers and vegetables.

Yeah, that does sound nice.

Living in the city makes things like that really difficult.

Yes, living in the city is certainly part of the problem, right?

Well, that depends on you.

You make things sound as if you have no choices in life.

It\'s the choices you\'ve made that put you where you are now.

Sure, that\'s certainly part of the problem.

I guess I\'ve changed.

You want a lifestyle that you can\'t have in the city.

If you really wanted those things, you could move back to the
countryside.

No that\'s not an option.

If I did that my wife would divorce me.

Have you ever talked about it with her?

No, I haven\'t.

We don\'t talk about things like that.

We are both too busy.

I think she\'s even busier than I am.

Well, maybe she would surprise you.

Maybe she\'d like a change too.

You should talk to her.

Emm, I don\'t know.

What about you?

I\'m okay.

My wife and I expect things as they are.

We try to think positively, and we support each other.

It sounds like you have a good marriage.

Yes, we do.

And one reason for that is that we share our thoughts with each other.

We don\'t want to grow apart like so many couples.

Maybe I\'ll surprise my wife, and start sharing my thoughts with her.

Well if you don\'t do it now, nothing is going to change.

Yes, you probably right.

I\'ll think about it.

Reading

**Winter in Antarctica: Staying Sane at the Bottom of the World**

On Antarctica, the world's coldest continent, the average high
temperature is -49 degrees Celsius. In the summer, the sun never sets,
and in the winter, it never rises. Keeping sane there is its own special
challenge.

The McMurdo Station is a research base perched on the edge of the Ross
Ice Shelf, the world's largest body of floating ice. The station is
administered by the United States and is the largest community in
Antarctica. Capable of supporting more than 1200 residents, the
population of the station drops to 150 brave (perhaps foolish) people
when winter begins in March. Their task is to maintain the station
during the months of total night. The biologists, astronomers,
geologists, and climate scientists who were there before, have gone, as
any research is impossible in the brutal winter.

Every day the remaining staff of maintenance personnel perform their
routine tasks and make repairs when needed. Sometimes they peer through
the darkness toward their friends from New Zealand, at Scott Base, about
two miles away. Though most of the time they're just voices on the
radio, it's so nice to have neighbors not too far away. Together, they
share a power grid and one coast of a dark forbidding continent.

Though the days are dark and freezing cold in the depths of winter, the
moon will rest above the horizon for weeks at a time. Its pale light
illuminates the cold, craggy landscape as if acknowledging a companion
and reaffirming the bonds of life. So even for those who live in the
darkest part of the Earth, there's light.

*It's about the importance of connection.*

*Something is routine if it's normal and respected.*

*A power grid is needed to supply electricity.*

*The writer shares what it feels like to live and work in Antarctica*.

*Most of the researchers leave because it's impossible to do research
during the winter.*

*To acknowledge something means to recognize or admit its existence.*

**Chernobyl: Lessons from Nature**

On April 26, 1986, Unit 4 of the Chernobyl nuclear reactor in northern
Ukraine, then a part of the Soviet Union, was shut down for an
unauthorized safety test. When the nuclear fuel rods hit the cooling
water, the fission reaction accelerated out of control due to a sudden
power surge. This caused the reactor to overheat and build up pressure
until its structure failed and it blew up, releasing large amounts of
radiation. It took officials a whole day to comprehend the scale of the
disaster and to order an evacuation of the surrounding area. Some 50,000
people had to leave, not knowing that they would never return. In the
following months, massive efforts were made to decontaminate the area
while increased radiation levels were detected across much of Europe.
Fallout from the disaster continues to this day, decades later, and
long-term effects such as cancers are still being investigated.
Estimates of the number of deaths that will eventually result from the
accident vary enormously.

The forest area near the reactor site is one of the most radioactive
places on Earth. Named the Red Forest because its trees turned a
reddish-brown color as they died, the forest is trying to make a
recovery. Animals such as elk and eagles have been seen in the area. And
birch trees grow where the radioactive trees of the forest were
bulldozed and buried by the Soviet government.

Some people have returned as well, mostly former residents who returned
illegally after the evacuation. The old company town of Pripyat, once
home to 50,000 plant workers is still deserted, but is slowly being
reclaimed by the forest. It seems that nature can recover and even
thrive where humans cannot. Let's hope that humans can learn from this
experience. Chernobyl, and more recently Fukushima in Japan, have
lessons to teach us.

*The purpose of this article is to educate.*

*It's clearly that officials were completely unprepared for this
accident.*

*We should never underestimate the danger of nuclear technologies. The
reactor exploded because too much pressure built up inside.*



Listening

Jack is a psychiatrist, which means he treats people who have mental
problems.

He has been treating patients for many years and has used a variety of
treatments.

Sometimes he just listens and talks to patients and sometimes he uses
medications. These medications affect the brain in many different ways.

*As a psychiatrist he treats people who have mental problems.*

*A psychiatrist is a doctor who treats people who have mental problems.
He has been a psychiatrist for many years.*

Over the years Jack found that some patients improved with the treatment
while the others didn't improve at all.

In some cases a patient's responds to a treatment was the opposite of
what was expected.

Several years ago he had a young patient who showed him why these
treatment didn't work. The patient's name was Bob.

He was 20 years old when he first came to see Jack for help.

The reason he came was because he had attempted suicide.

*He wouldn't have come to see Jack if he hadn't tried to kill himself.*

Bob was extremely smart and was a student at one of the best
universities in the world.

However, he was often extremely depressed.

Because of his depression he took drugs and drank a lot of alcohol.

It was an overdose of drugs and alcohol that nearly killed him.

His roommate called 911 when he discovered Bob unconscious in their
dormitory room.

*If his roommate hadn't called 911 Bob would probably have died. He took
drugs and drank a lot because of his depression.*

Once Bob recovered and was discharged from the hospital he took time off
from school to get help.

That was when he came to the clinic where Jack practices his medicine.

At first Jack attempted to treat Bob with a tie depression medications.

He also used conversation and recommendations to help him rethink his
life and memories.

After a few months Bob began to improve but only moderately.

Through he cooperated with the treatment he continued to think
negatively.

He also continued to go through periods of depression. As a result he
wasn't able to return to school.

*He wasn't able to return to school because his treatment wasn't
working.*

*Had the treatment been successful, he probably would have returned to
school. He was also going through periods of depression.*

Because the treatment wasn't working Jack tried something new.

He decided to use brain scans to look inside Bob's brain.

Brain scans are a way to look inside the brain to see how it was
functioning.

What the scans showed about Bob was crucial.

They showed that his brain was damaged in a way that nobody had
anticipated.

There were significant damage to the front part of his brain.

An injury in this part of brain can contribute to depression and
negative feeling.

It can also contribute to feelings of anger and rage.

The fact that his brain was injured and unbalanced explained why the
treatment hadn't work.

The brain scans showed why the medications and other treatments hadn't
worked.

They had failed because they didn't address the brain injury.

After discuss the injury with Bob and his parents, they concluded that
the cause of the injury was from playing soccer.

In fact Jack knew of quite a few soccer players who had suffered head
injuries from playing that sport. Heading a hard soccer ball many times
can damage the brain.

*If he hadn't played soccer, his brain wouldn't have been injured.*

With this new information, Jack used a new medicine to treat the injury.

Gradually Bob improved and after a few months was close to full
recovery.

He no longer had any signs of depression and was finally able to return
to school.

Alternately Bob graduated from his university with honers and entered a
famous law's school.

From this experience Jack realized that the brain imaging had allowed
him to save Bob's life.

If he hadn't been for the scans Bob would have ended up killing himself.

Detecting and treating the injury to the front of his brain was the key
step in his treatment.

Jack now believed that brain scans can be an important tool for
psychiatrists.

An injured brain must be healed before other treatments such as
vitamins, drugs and counseling, can work.

Dialogue

W: We've got big problems on our hands. We are getting a lot of
complaints.

M: About the proposed new policy?

W: Yes, people think it's an invasion of privacy.

M: Don't they agree that regular exercise and staying in shape is good
for everyone?

W: Sure, they agree. But they don't think we have the right to use an
app to track how much they exercise. M: Using the app is the only way to
make sure our employees get enough exercises.

W: This new policy will reduce our health cause and improve
productivity, which helps everyone!

M: That's not how they see it. This kind of regulation makes people feel
like robots. They have no freedom anymore. Requiring everyone to wear a
smart device like this on the wrist means they have no privacy. W: Well,
if you put it that way, I can see the problem.

M: However, I don't see any other way to change people's habits. This is
just a friendly reminder.

W: It's more than a reminder. It makes things public and puts press on
people to meet the requirements. It will force people to work out even
when they don't want to. There won't be any choices.

M: No, it doesn't have to be that way. We can still be flexible.

W: That's not the point. People hate the idea that the company knows
everything they do. It's bad enough that they have to communicate with
each other at night and on weekends.

M: What if we make the use of the app an option?

W: If you do that, it still puts press on people to use it. I think it's
best that we get rid of this idea. I'm all for standards, but what about
freedom and creativity? If we go ahead with this policy, I think we will
lose some of our best people.

W: There are other ways to deal with health issues.

M: Such as? What's your suggestion?

W: Give extra holidays to people who take fewer sick days.

M: No, that wouldn't work. It will put press on people to come to work
sick and get everyone else sick too. If someone is sick, I'd rather that
they stay at home.

W: Then there's a radical idea. Why not let your department managers
handle it? They are the ones who decide on promotions and bonus. Setting
everything in stone in a form of policies can be very dangerous.

M: OK, I'll consider it. For now, I'll give up the idea of using this
app. Please let people know that we are listening to them. We do care
about our employees.

W: I will. I'm sure people will appreciate it. It shows that you have
faith in them. M: Thanks, I appreciate your advice.

*They think it gives the company too much control over their lives.*

*They don't want the company to know so much about their lives.*

*Even if it were an option, it would still put press on people to use
it.*

*He would rather have sick people stay at home than come to work.*

*People would be able to see how well they are doing in comparison with
others.*

*The policy is still being considered and hasn't been put into effect
yet.*

*Creative people often value their freedom more than other and won't
like the new policy.*

Reading

**Preventing Injuries**

Exercise and a certain amount of strenuous physical activity are
important for maintaining good health. However, before engaging in them,
it's important to know how to prevent injuries from occurring,
especially for athletes and elderly people. Injuries can be minimized by
doing a proper warm up. This consists of increasing your heart rate and
the blood flow to all parts of your body. A good way to do this is
through a series of static stretches followed by a series of dynamic
stretches, which are done while moving. Using the proper equipment is
essential, especially in contact sports. To protect the head, for
example, well-designed helmets can greatly reduce the incidence of
concussions. Concussions are caused when the soft, jello-like brain
slams into the hard human skull. Research shows that repeated
concussions can have serious consequences.

Compression sportswear is another way to reduce the risk of injury,
especially muscle injuries. More and more athletes are using them
because their use can also speed up muscle recovery when an injury
occurs. Another contributing factor in sports injuries is fatigue.
Doctors believe that fatigue is an important warning sign that the body
has reached its limit. When fatigued it is more difficult for the body
to protect itself. Therefore it's a good idea to stop an activity at the
first sign of fatigue. Rest periods, even for professional athletes, can
prevent serious injuries from occurring.

Understanding injuries and the body's reaction to them can help people
cope with problems that accompany physical exercises. The support and
understanding of coaches, teammates and family can be a critical factor
in prevention and recovery. Once and injury occurs, it's too late to
prevent it, and recovery can take a long time. For the elderly, a simple
fall can be fatal.

*A fatal accident or injury is one that causes death.*

*It's important to know how to prevent injuries from occurring.*

**Blood Pressure and Stroke**

A large international study has found that ten risk factors account for
90 percent of all the risk of stroke. Of that list, five risk factors
usually related to lifestyle are responsible for a full 80 percent of
stroke risk. According to the researchers these risk factors -- high
blood pressure, smoking, abdominal obesity, diet and physical activity
-- are modifiable and can be controlled.

The findings come from a study of 3,000 people who had had strokes and
an equal number of healthy individuals with no history of stroke. The
study also includes a brain scan of all participating stroke survivors,
according to the researchers. Across the board, high blood pressure was
the most important factor, accounting for one-third of all stroke risk.
Blood pressure, it was noted, plays a major role in both forms of stroke
ischemic, the most common form (caused by blockage of a brain blood
vessel), and hemorrhagic or bleeding stroke, in which a blood vessel in
the brain bursts.

Blood pressure is easily measured, and there are lots of treatments.
Lifestyle modifications to control it include increasing physical
activity and reducing salt intake. The other lifestyle risk factors are
modifiable as well. High intake of fish and fruits, for example, is
associated with a lower risk of stroke.

Many of the same risk factors have been reported in other studies, but
this is the first stoke risk study to include both low- and
middle-income participants in developing countries. The study confirms
that high blood pressure is the leading cause of stroke in both
developing can developed countries. This highlights the need for health
authorities in those countries to develop strategies to reduce high
blood pressure, salt intake and other risk factors.

*According to this article, lifestyle factors are responsible for most
strokes.*

*The other lifestyle risk factors are modifiable as well.*

*Blood pressure is easily measured, and there are lots of treatments.*

The most common form of stroke is caused by blockage of a blood vessel.

*High blood pressure accounts for a one-third of all stroke risk.*

*The study confirms that high blood pressure is the leading cause of
stroke.*



Listening

John and Linda are worry about their future.

They both have good jobs, but they are concerned about economy.

Of the two of them, Linda is the most worried.

She wants the security of owning her own home.

Her husband disagrees.

As a result they often fight about money.

They live in a nice apartment but the rent goes up every year.

So now they are trying to decide whether or not to buy a house.

Linda wants to buy a house but John is against the idea.

He thinks the prices are too high, and he doesn't want to be trapped.

If they owned a house or flat, it would be more difficult to move
somewhere else if things changed.

For example what would happen if he lost his job?

If he lost his job, they might want to move to another city or country.

If they owned a home or flat, it would be more difficult to move.

If they decided to move, they would probably have to sale.

If prices had risen they would be OK.

In fact they might even make a profit.

However if price were down when they had to sell, they would lose money.

*Owning a home could make it more difficult to move to another
location.*

Last week John got some bad news.

His company is downsizing and moving its head office to another city.

It's moving because it can no longer afford to do business where they
are now.

Expenses are too high, especially salaries, so it's more difficult to
compete with other companies.

In fact, several other companies would be moving out too.

Office base is expensive in the area, along with the cost of living for
employees.

As a result, it's becoming more difficult to hire good employees.

Nobody wants to live there unless their salary can support a good
standard of living.

With all of these changes, John thinks there's a good chance that he
would be transferred to the new head office. This could happen fairly
soon.

If so, it would be foolish to buy a house at this time.

Linda still disagrees about buying a house but she's willing to wait a
year to see what happens.

She hopes that they won't have to move but they may have to unless John
is willing to change companies. She would prefer not to move because she
doesn't want to lose her job.

Now they have to consider what they'll do if he's transferred.

John has to decide whether or not he should begin to look for a new
company.

If he could find another job in the area, it would put less stress on
his wife.

If they stay and can wait for a while maybe housing prices would begin
to come down.

If prices don't come down, then he and his wife will continue to
disagree about buying a house. Sooner or later they are going to have to
make a decision and stop fighting about it.

*It's downsizing and relocating its head office to a less expensive
area.*

*If he's transferred, he'll have to decide whether or not to stay with
the company.*

*She is willing to postpone the decision until they know where John is
going to work.*

*She hopes that they won't have to move, but they may have to unless
John is willing to change companies.*

Dialogue

M1: Are you having any luck finding a new girlfriend?

M2: No, I'm not. I haven't found anyone I like. So far they are all
after my money and fancy life style. What is happen to real love?

M1: I don't know. The same thought has occurred to me lately. I'm afraid
I become a bit of a cynic.

M2: I was just reading about some new robots called AIs. They have
artificial intelligent, or AI.

M1: Yes, AIs. I heard about it. And they've been in some movie too.

M2: Evidentely, these new AIs can be very attractive companions. What do
you think about that?

M1: You must be kidding. Relating to a smart robot? It sounds sick to
me.

M2: I don't know, maybe not. I wonder what would be like to have an AI
girl-friend? Maybe you could program to be like your dream woman.

M1: A dream woman, hah. Well, it's an interesting idea, but hard to
imagine in reality. I guess it could be fun for a while, but then it
would get boring, don't you think?

M2: For sure, no real emotion. Everything would be mechanical and
artificial, even the language. There wouldn't be a soul inside, just an
empty machine.

M1: Well, not necessarily. That would depend on how intelligent it is.
There are some who say that AIs are going to be more intelligent than we
are.

M2: Emm, I've heard that too. In fact, they may even be a threat to us,
right?

M1: Anyway, if it were possible, would you want a woman you could
control?

M2: A woman I could control? No, I can't imagine it. Most of the women
I've been with have tried to control me. M1: Well, that's one of the
differences between men and women. We see things differently. M2: We
never measure up to their standards, hah.

M1: However, if there's real love, the bonds between two people can be
very deep. It may not happen very often, but I've seen it.

M2: Yes, that's what I'm looking for. I hope it's not just a dream.

M1: If that's what you want, you are probably not going to find her in a
bar.

M2: Maybe I'll just let people know I'm looking for someone nice.

M1: Be sure they don't tell her you're rich. Maybe I can help you find
someone.

M2: You have my promision. And just for fun, I'll start checking out
some of those smart robots. It sounds crazy, but I'm curious.

M1: With all the lonely people out there, it may turn out to be a huge
business.

*He was reading about some new AIs that are designed to be attractive
companions.*

Reading

**Mysteries of Mona Lisa**

Without a doubt, one of the world's most recognizable pieces of art is
the Mona Lisa. Painted in the 16^th^ Century by Leonardo da Vinci, it
continues to attract crowds of people who are captivated by the
mysterious woman in the portrait. Her enigmatic smile and
**penetrating** gaze reach out through the ages as if she were alive
today.

Critics and art lovers still argue about her identity. One theory is
that the way she posed suggests that she was with child. Another theory
argues that her hairless face -- no brows or lashes -- indicates that
she was a **prostitute**. It seems that in 16^th^ Century Italy women
working in the world's oldest profession has hairless faces in order to
make themselves more sexually arousing. There is, however, evidence that
at one time the woman in the portrait had thick eyebrows. Perhaps they
were **inadvertently** erased when the painting was cleaned. Nobody
knows for sure.

The painting itself has an interesting history. With the death of
Leonardo, it went to his friend King Francois I, and then to Louis XV
and the Palace of Versailles. It wasn't until 300 years after its
completion that it was recognized as a masterpiece. For a time, Emperor
Napoleon Bonaparte hung it in his bedroom. Eventually, it found a
permanent home when it was added to the collection of the Louvre in
Paris. In 1911 it was stolen by a museum employee and two accomplices.
This theft made the painting famous all over the world. During World War
II it was taken away and hidden from the Nazis, as were many important
works of art.

Today the painting resides at Louvre, captivating a whole new
generation. Whoever she was, the mysteries surrounding the Mona Lisa
continue to engage our imaginations.

*This article was written in a style to keep the mystery alive.*

**A Story of Friendship and Love**

This is the story of a donkey named Jellybean and a goat named Mr. G.
For ten years they lived together on a farm owned by a woman who loved
animals but could barely care for herself. She had dozens of animals,
but the living conditions for all of them were deplorable. Finally, an
animal rescue organization came and took the animals away, relocating
them to animal sanctuaries.

Throughout their years at the farm, Jellybean and Mr. G had been
inseparable. Wherever the donkey was, the goat was never far away. For
the same reason, they had bonded, and nobody suspected how strong the
bond had become. When Jellybean was taken to local animal rescue center,
Mr. G was moved to a center far away. When he arrived, he refused to
eat. Not only did he refused to eat, but he refused to get up or move
around. He spent his days lying in a corner of the barn, barely lifting
his head. The staff at the center tried feeding him treats, including
apples and sweets, but nothing worked.

As the days went by, he continued to weaken. The staff had to move him
physically to ensure he didn't spend too long lying down. Worried that
he was ill, they gave him a series of health examinations, but none
showed anything wrong. Finally, they realized that he was depressed and
mourning the loss of his best friend.

With his condition getting worse, drastic measures were required. A
volunteer at the center offered to make the 14-hour-round-trip journey
to fetch Jellybean so the two could be reunited.

Once Jellybean arrived and the goat sensed his presence, he rose to his
feet, breathed in deeply and rushed to his friend's side. Shortly after
that, he began to eat, moving the entire staff to tears. Such a
beautiful reunion was inspiring -- an amazing testimonial to the depth
of nonhuman emotions.

Since the video of the reunion was posted on the Internet, it has been
viewed by millions. And from now on, the two friends will remain
together.

*The animals were taken away because their living conditions were
deplorable. This story teaches us that humans have much in common with
animals.*

Unit 2



Listening

Walter wants to retire within the next few years.

He's been working at the same company for over 15 years as an
accountant.

During that time he's been saving his money and paying off his debts.

However even with his savings and investments, he isn't sure that he'll
have enough money for retirement.

If he doesn't, he'll have to keep on working, which depends on the
company. For now, the company is okay, but it's no longer growing as
fast as it used to.

Whether or not he can keep on working will also depend on his health.

Fortunately he's in good health, but he knows that that could change at
any time.

If he fell down or had a stroke, it could force him to stop working.

If that happened, he would have to rely on his savings and other assets
to survive. Sooner or later, he knows his health will decline and he'll
have to stop working. So he needs to prepare.

*He's been saving money and paying off debts to prepare for retirement.*

Most of his wealth is in the form of company stock and the value of his
home.

Both of this are at risk.

The company stock may go down and the value of his home may also fall.

The company he works for is a pharmaceutical company.

It develops new drugs, which is a risky business, and sells them
worldwide.

It's expensive to develop new drug and it can take a very long time to
get new drug approved. Without government approval, it can't be sold,
which can result in a huge loss.

Another threat to the company comes from foreign competition, which is
getting strong.

The company has also started to move some of its research and production
facilities overseas.

Salary levels are lower there, and the quality of foreign worker is
getting better.

As a result, the company has reduced its local hiring and is no longer
going large bonuses.

*It has reduced its local hiring, because salaries levels are lower
overseas.*

One thing he is considering is to sell his shares in the company.

He could begin to sell a little at that time and reinvest the money
somewhere else.

But where could he invest?

He doesn't know much about investing and several of his friends have
lost a lot by making bad investments. Investing in real estate or the
stock market could be very risky.

In the best case he would make a lot of money.

If that happed, he could finally retire and enjoy a comfortable life.

On the other hand, in the worst case, his investments could result in a
huge loss.

If that happed, he wouldn't be able to enjoy his retirement.

He wouldn't be able to travel or do any of the things he has dreamed
about doing.

So, now he has to decide what he should do.

Should he begin to sell his stock in the company or should he wait until
he actually needs the money.

If he sold now, he would have to decide what to do with the money.

His investments could turn out well, or, they could turn out to be a
disaster.

On the other hand, if he decides to wait, everything will depend on the
company.

The one in advance he has with this option is that he's being on the
inside of the company.

With his insider information, he can predict the company's short-term
future.

This is especially true, because as an accountant, he has access to the
company's financial data.

If things start to go badly, he can begin to sell his stock and avoid a
big loss.

Otherwise, it's probably safer to keep his stock and hope that the
company does well, even if its growth rate declines.

So for now, that's probably what he should do.

If you were he, what would you do?

*If his investment resulted in a huge loss, he wouldn't be able to enjoy
his retirement. In his role as an accountant, he has special access to
the company's financial data.*

Dialogue

W: So, where should we go on the vocation? What about Africa?

M: Africa? No, that's not for me. Why do you want to go to Africa?

W: I'd like to get out and see the wild life, the drama of nature. We
could see some of the great migrations.

M: Wow, you are an adventurer. What about food and diseases? What about
terrorism?

W: Sure, something bad could happen, but if we never take any risks, we
won't have an interesting life. I don't want to have a boring life.

*He's concerned about food, diseases and terrorism.*

*She thinks it's worth taking a few risks in order to have an
interesting life.*

M: So, you think I'm boring then, right?

W: Well, you are certainly not the exciting person. You play things save
and secure.

M: I don't mind taking a few risks, but it's got to be worth it.
Watching animal's migration is something I can see in the documentary.
And I don't like the idea of being around prejectors, like lions and
hienors.

W: OK, my brease man. What would you like to do?

M: Well, I've been thinking about it. I think it would be nice to go to
Paris in the fall, and visit some museums. We could go to a concern and
maybe see boa.

W: Ah, we've been to Paris before. There's nothing excited about going
to Paris and I'm tired of museums.

*She thinks his suggestion isn't very exciting.*

W: Any other ideas?

M: One place that might be interesting is in South America, Machu
Picchu. It's an abandon city way up in the mountain and Peru.

W: Yes, I've heard of it. That might be interesting.

M: Should we look into it?

W: Sure, you look into it, and I'll get some information about trips to
Africa.

M: So your heart is really set on Africa, isn't it?

W: Yes, it really is. I need something exciting in my life now. I do is
working be with you. I need a change. Don't you ever feel that way?

M: OK, I hear you. Let's go to Africa. Ant don't blame me if you get
sick along the way.

W: Great, you are not so bad after all. I can only depend on you. M: Be
careful. Maybe one of these days I'll surprise you.

*He agrees to go to Africa with her because he sees how important it is
to her.*

Reading

**Is Online Dating Killing Love**

A fair maiden is guarded by a dragon. A handsome prince must stay the
dragon to save her. Then, magically, they all in love and live happily
ever after.

Traditional stories tend to emphasize the fantastic, magical side of
love. Fate plays matchmaker. Strangers see each other from across a room
and instantly know that they are destined to be together. It isn't
difficult to imagine two strangers coming together and falling in love
despite their differences. It suggests that love is challenging,
uncertain, and incomprehensible.

But with more people using online dating services, a very different kind
of love has emerged: one that is scientific, convenient, and
self-directed. It minimizes risk and provides a choice, like on a menu.
There is anonymity and the avoidance of immediate rejection. Meeting
terms are negotiated online.

Online dating also allows the setting of preconditions. Computer
algorithms exclude undesirable traits such as the wrong hair color, race
or age. But they also exclude randomness. They reduce the chances of
meeting someone different, or someone who could challenge one's romantic
ideals. Instead, they find the partner we think we want and exclude
everyone else. As a result, we could be missing the opportunity of
lifetime, to meet someone we would never have expected to fall in love
with.

Perhaps this new way represents a more efficient form of romance.
Traditional ideas of love may be enchanting -- but are they useful?
Loneliness and boredom are less exciting than chance encounters, but
they represent the more realistic side of love. All too often people
have suffered through bad dates and humiliations. If they could just
choose what they wanted, wouldn't it save time and reduce suffering?

However, by choosing partners based one our preconceived ideas, we may
be indulging in our illusions. Instead of letting ourselves grow with
someone, love becomes more about looking for ourselves in the other.
What if we don't know ourselves as well as we think? Perhaps love isn't
about knowing what we want. Perhaps it's about being open to unimagined
possibilities.

**Sport injuries**

Sports injuries are injuries that happen to athletes participating in
sporting events. In many cases, these types of injuries are due to
overuse of a part of the body. For example, runner's knee is a painful
condition associated with running, while tennis elbow is a form of
repetitive stress injury at the elbow. Other types of injuries, such as
a broken bone, can be caused by hard contact with something.

Injuries are a common occurrence in professional sports, and most teams
have a staff of trainers and close connections to the medical community.
Controversy has arisen at times, when teams have made decisions that
could threaten a player's long-term health for short-term gain.

Sports injuries can be classified as either traumatic or overuse
injuries. Traumatic injuries account for most injuries in contact sports
such as soccer, rugby, and American football. This is of course due to
the dynamic and high collision nature of these games. These injuries
range from bruises and muscle strains to fractures and head injuries.

A bruise is damage to small blood vessels which causes bleeding within
the tissues. A muscle strain is a small tear of muscle fibers and a
ligament sprain is a small tear of ligament tissue. The body's response
to these injuries is the same in the initial five-day period immediately
following the incident -- inflammation. Inflammation is characterized by
pain, localized swelling, heat, redness and a loss of function.
Inflammation is the first phase of healing, and typically lasts for
around five days. However, too much of an inflammatory response can mean
that the healing process will take longer, and a return to activity is
delayed. Sports injury treatments are intended to minimize that
inflammatory phase of an injury so that the overall healing process is
accelerated.

*The tone of this article is logical and informative.*

*To account for means the same as to be responsible for. Collision means
about the same thing as crash.*



Listening

Now that you start in English at a high level, let's get a better
understanding of modals.

By now, you should already have a good understanding of what they mean.
Here are the modals which are used to express degree of certainty.

Will, shall, may, can.

These modals are used for making predictions, judgements, and
speculations.

They indicate how much the speaker knows about the likelihood of an
event.

First, the modal will, expresses certainty, as in, if you heat water, it
will boil.

Based on what has known, the speaker is certain it will happen.

The modal may expresses possibility, as in, it may rain this evening,
but I'm not sure.

Based on what has known, the speaker asserts that the event is possible,
rather that certain, or impossible.

The modal can expresses potential, or ability, as in, he can afford it,
but he may decide not to buy.

*Which modal predict something with certainty?*

*--will.*

*--the modal will shows that the speaker is making a prediction of
certainty.*

*Which sentence express possibility but not certainty?*

*-he may be here a bit late.*

*-in this sentence, the speaker is expressing possibility.*

The modal shall is a bit different from the others.

"Tina shall be there" means the speaker is determined that Tina will be
there.

In other words, the speaker is determined to get her to come and will
try to influence events to make it happen.

We would never say "it shall rain".

Nobody can make it rain, so whether or not it rains is beyond anyone's
control.

If someone were to say that, it would seem as if they were claiming the
power to control or influence nature.

Note that the question, shall I open the door, invites the person who is
asked to make the decision.

Whether or not the door is opened depends on the person's answer.

In contract, will I open the door, asks for a prediction rather than a
decision.

*Which sentence is an invitation?*

*-would you like to come to the party?*

*-This is an invitation to come to the party.*

*Which sentence is a prediction with certainty?*

*-we will overcome all obstacles!*

*- we will overcome all obstacles, is a prediction with certainty, ...
or stong belif.*

*She has something else planed for that evening, so she... -can't come
to the party.*

Note that these modals can be weakened or removed from reality by the
use of their past tense form.

Would, should, might, could.

"We would go if we had more money, but we don't."

This sentence expresses the speaker is certainty of going IF they had
more money, which they don't.

So the certain prediction exist, but is in an imaginary or unreal
situation.

The modal "might" expresses less possibility than "may", so "might go"
is less likely than "may go".

The modal "could" expresses less potential than "can", and is often used
in conditionals.

"If he could come" expresses less potential than "If he can come".

The sentence "if he could come, we would all be happier" expresses the
feeling that, in fact, he can't come.

*They'll finish working at 5:00, unless the boss gives them more work to
do, which is likely, which is the best choice? -They might finish at
5:00.*

*-It's unlikely they'll finish at five, but it's possible.*

*They'll finish working at 5:00, unless the boss gives them more work to
do, which is unlikely, which is the best choice?*

*-They should finish at 5:00.*

*- It isn't certain, but there's a good probability that they will
finish at five.*

*They can't leave on Friday if the weather is still bad. Which is the
best choice?*

*-They might not be able to leave on Friday.*

*-We don't know for sure, but there is still a possibility that they can
leave on Friday.*

Here is the second set of modals.

These modals expresses degree of logical force, or social expectation.

Must, had better, should, ought to.

Note that none of them has a past tense or weakened form.

The first one, must, indicates logical or social necessity.

It expresses a strongest logical or social force.

The modal should and ought to assert that something is probable or
expected, but not necessary.

The modal had better expresses advicebility.

In other works, if someone had batter do something, they should do it,
or there may be negative consequences.

Therefore, had batter has the feeling of a threat, as in "you had better
be there."

This isn't the same as you should do it, which means that you are
expected to do it, but without an imply threat if you don't.

One interesting rule is that no more than one modal can be used with any
verb.

There are no exception to this rule.

Therefore it's incorrect to say: "He will must be there".

To avoid breaking this rule, there are other words that have the same
meaning, but are not modals. In the case of "must", for example, we use
"have to", as in "He will have to be there".

Similarly, we cannot say "He may can come".

Instead, we say "He may be able to come".

One last thing to know about modals.

They use the same form regardless of what the subject is.

If the gramical subject is "I", "it", "we" or "they", we use the same
form, "will". We would never say "He wills be there".

But in expression,

Dialogue

W1: What's wrong? You look awful.

W2: My boyfriend and I have just had another fight. I think I'm going to
break up with him.

W1: Hey, you've said that before. Calm down. Is that really what you
want to do? W2: Yeah, I think so. I don't see any future in our
relationship.

W1: Is there anyone else you're interested in?

W2: No, but there are some guys on the internet who had sent me
messages.

W1: What? You've been on line?

W2: Sure, just for fun. It's nice to know that I can meet people if I
want to.

W1: Does your boyfriend know about it?

W2: No, if he knew it, he would be furious. He can be very jealous and
he has a violent temper.

W1: Anyway, what was your fight about?

W2: Oh, it's just the way he talks to me. He never shows any interest in
what I'm doing or in what I'm feeling. If I have a bad headache or
anything, he says nothing.

W1: So who started the fight?

W2: He came over and wanted to kiss me and I turned away. I told him I
didn't feel anything for him right then. So then he got angry and we
both blew up.

W2: Now we are not talking to each other.

W1: Oh, is that all? That kind of thing is normal. Maybe you are
overreacting.

W2: No, it's just that I'm beginning to realize that I don't feel
anything for him anymore. Our relationship is getting cold. I don't feel
appreciated.

W1: Well then, maybe you should break up for a while and start seeing
other men. But be careful. If I were you, I wouldn't start seeing
anybody else until I break up first.

W2: Why do you think so?

W1: If he sees that you are serious about breaking up, he may change.

W2: Maybe, but I doubt it.

W1: It could be that he feels the same way about you. Maybe he's lost
interest. So it's best to find out. You need to have a serious
conversation with him.

W2: Hmm, you're right. Maybe it's time to really find our.

Reading

**The Love Lab**

How we communicate with our romantic partners can have a strong impact
on the quality of our relationships. Psychologists John and Julie
Gottman run the "Love Lab", where thousands of couples have been studies
over the last 30 years. The purpose of their research is to determine
the factors that lead to happy and unhappy relationships. From their
data, they have concluded that contempt, criticism, defensiveness, and
stonewalling are the most significant factors that can hurt a marriage
or relationship.

Among these, contempt is the biggest predictor of divorce. People who
feel contempt for their partner often convey disapproval without
addressing the issue. They sometimes label their partner with insulting
words such as "lazy" "stupid" or "emotional", which is particularly
damaging.

Many couples try to address issues by criticizing their partner's flaws
or mistakes directly. Being too direct with criticism can hurt your
partner's self-esteem. Some people may react to criticism by becoming
defensive and focused on winning the argument, rather than on improving
themselves. Others may react to criticism by stonewalling, where they
refuse to acknowledge and respond to their partner for a period of time.
Unfortunately, fighting back or ignoring your partner can make it
difficult to determine the root of your problems. If your partner feels
that they aren't valued, it may lead to increased dissatisfaction with
the relationship.

The Gottmans maintain that being aware of these factors in communication
is the first step to improving a relationship. It is important to
acknowledge that all relationships have issues. The goal shouldn't be to
avoid these issues, but to learn to resolve them. In particular, we
should avoid communicating in ways that hurt our partner's self-esteem.
It is better to discuss problems in a way that is less confrontational
and can better help your partner sympathize with your perspective. For
example, rather than saying "Why are you ignoring me? It's rude!", one
should say "I feel hurt and undervalued when I don't get a response from
you." By being conscious of how we communicate with our partner, we can
begin to build a healthier relationship.

*-The tone of this article is... --logical and insightful.*

*-What is the purpose of the passage? --It's to advise readers on how to
identify and improve problems in a relationship.*

*-Which sentence best summarizes the idea of the passage? --We can use
their research findings to improve our relationship.*

*-Which sentence below would most likely lower somebody's self-esteem?
--You are too lazy around the house.*

*-What can make your partner feel that they aren't valued? --Refusing to
acknowledge and respond to them.*

*-What is the purpose of Gottmans' research? --to identify
characteristics of successful and unsuccessful relationships.*

*-Someone who is defensive in an argument will probably... -not admit
fault.*

*-To confront something means... -to face it.*

*-To sympathize with perspective means... -to understand another
person's feelings. -To determine the root of a problem means to find...
-its source. -What is another word for acknowledge? --to recognize or
admit -To show contempt means... -to be disrespectful.*

*-What is the biggest predictor of devoice? --Among this, contempt is
the biggest predictor of devoice.*

*-how should we avoid communicating with our partners? --In particular,
we should avoid communicating in ways that hurt our partner's
self-esteem.*

*-What's an example of insulting word? -They sometimes label their
partner with insulting words such as "lazy" "stupid" or "emotional",
which is particularly damaging.*

*-What may happen if your partner feels undervalued? -If your partner
feels that they aren't valued, it may lead to increased dissatisfaction
with the relationship.*

*-What is the first thing we should do to repair our relationship? -The
Gottmans maintain that being aware of these factors in communication is
the first step to improving a relationship.*

*-What might make it be difficult to find out the cause of your
relationship problems? -Unfortunately, fighting back or ignoring your
partner can make it difficult to determine the root of your problems.*

*Some people **respond** to criticism by stonewalling, **where** they
refuse to **acknowledge** and respond to their partner for a period of
time. Unfortunately, **ignoring** your partner can make it difficult to
determine the **root** of your problems. If your partner feels that they
aren't **valued**, it may lead to increased **marital**
dissatisfaction.*

*Their research has given us insight into how to make our relationships
better.*

*Stonewalling your partner can make them feel like they aren't valued.*

*Telling somebody that they are too lazy would probably hurt their
self-esteem.*

*They used data from observing thousands of couples to determine the
factors that lead to unhappy relationships.*

*The purpose of their research is to determine the factors that lead to
happy and unhappy relationships.*

**The Lost City of the Incas**

Machu Picchu is one of the world's most impressive historical sites. It
was built around 1450 by the Incas, who ruled most of South America at
that time. They called themselves children of the Sun, the powerful god
they worshipped as the source of light and life.

Located in the Andes Mountains of Peru, at 8,000 feet above sea level,
the "City of the Incas" was mysteriously abandoned just 100 years after
its construction. This was when the Spanish were beginning their
conquest of the Inca Empire, in the 1530's. There is no evidence that
the Spanish invaders ever attacked or even reached the mountaintop city,
so many believe that the city's inhabitants deserted the site because of
a smallpox epidemic. The city was almost forgotten until 1911 when it
was discovered by an American historian, Hiram Bingham, after he heard
rumors of its existence. Bingham was led to the site by local farmers
and was amazed by what he saw, which seemed like an unbelievable dream.
He wondered if anyone would believe what he had found.

Though the surrounding jungle had overgrown the site, what remained was
impressive. The city had been built on a remote and nearly inaccessible
mountaintop, often shrouded in clouds. Forty rows of farming terraces
hugged the steep mountainside, each over 10 feet high and linked
together by over 3000 stone steps. Among the city were what appeared to
be neighborhoods of homes and exquisite stone buildings that are thought
to be temples. Even today, the mystery remains as to the purpose of
these temples, how the city was used and what its citizens did.

Despite its remote location, Machu Picchu has become one of the most
popular tourist destinations in the world. Every year, thousands of
people travel to Peru to admire its magnificent stonework and
breathtaking design. What they see is a wonderful harmony between the
city and the landscape around it that is captivating.

*-How does the author describe the relationship between the city and the
landscape around it? --harmonious.*

*-The purpose of this article is probably to... -encourage tourists to
visit the site.*

*-As a piece of writing this article succeeds in... -expressing the
author's fascination with the site.*

*-Why did the city's inhabitants live the city? --It may have been
because of an epidemic.*

*-What led to the discovery of the city? --An American historian heard
rumors of its existence.*

*-How did the American historian find the site? --He was led to the site
by local farmers.*

*-The conquest of a country or territory happens when...? --It is
defeated and taken over.*

*-If something is remote, it is... -far away.*

*-If something is inaccessible, it is... -difficult to reach.*

*-To admire something means... -to look at it with respect.*

*-To abandon something means... -to leave it behind.*

*-Exquisite means about the same thing as... -extremely beautiful.*

*-What do the Incas call themselves? -They* *called themselves children
of the Sun, the powerful god they worshipped as the source of light and
life.*

*-What do the Incas worship as the source of light and life? -They*
*called themselves children of the Sun, the powerful god they worshipped
as the source of light and life.*

*-What do the Incas worship as the source of light and life? -They
called themselves children of the Sun, the powerful god they worshipped
as the source of light and life.*

*-Who conque the Inca empire? -This was when the Spanish were beginning
their conquest of the Inca Empire, in the 1530's.*

*-When was the city built? -It was built around 1450 by the Incas, who
ruled most of South America at that time. -When was the city abandoned?
-Located in the Andes Mountains of Peru, at 8,000 feet above sea level,
the "City of the Incas" was mysteriously abandoned just 100 years after
its construction.*

*Machu Picchu was **abandoned** an estimated 100 years after its
construction, probably around the time the Spanish **began** their
conquest of the might Inca civilization in the 1530s. There is no
**evidence** that the Spanish **invaders** ever attacked or even
**reached** the mountaintop city. For this **reason**, some have
**suggested** that the residents' desertion **occurred** because of a
smallpox epidemic.*

*The American historian was led to the site by local farmers.*

*An American historian discovered the city after he heard rumors of its
existence.*

*This article succeeds in expressing the author's fascination with the
site.*

*Many believe that the city's inhabitants abandoned the city because of
an epidemic.*



Listening

In this course, we have tried to prepare you to understand and
discussing point topics that are often in the news.

Sometimes the news is good news, but all too often, we learn of problems
and crises.

Once in a while, an event is extraordinary and will change the world.

In this lesson, we focus on two events that changed history forever.

These events are the assassinations of two political leaders, Julius
Caesar, and US president, John Kennedy.

We will never know how history might have been different had these
events not taken place. But we can speculate about their causes and
about how they might have been prevented.

*-Why does this course focus on such topics as in the historical event?
--This kind of language is often used in news reports.*

One of the most famous assassinations in history was the assassination
of Julius Caesar.

At the time of his death in 44 B.C. he was the leader of Rome Empire.

His title was "Dictator for Life", which meant he had absolute authority
for as long as he lived.

He had gained this power through his successes as a military commander.

In fact some historians consider him to be one of the greatest military
commanders in history.

Once gaining power he fought against corruption and began to restructure
the government.

For example, he increased the number of senators and changed how they
were chosen.

Instead of being elected, they could be appointed, even if they were not
from Rome.

These actions reduced the power of individual senators and switched the
power to Caesar himself.

In doing so, he created many enemies, especially among the aristocracy.

However, he also had many admirers who supported his effects to end
corruption.

*-What's an example of how he restructure the government? --He changed
how senators were chosen.*

*-Why were many* aristocracy *against him? --He was reducing their
power.*

*-What does the aristocracy mean? --is the ruling class of a country.*

*-If he hadn't acted against the aristocracy, he... -wouldn't have
created as many enemies.*

Caesar was stabbed to death by a group of Rome senators on March 15, 44
B.C.

He was scheduled to leave Rome 3 days later, to fight in another war.

He had appointed members of his army to rule the empire while he was
away.

This action angered many in the Rome senators who didn't want to take
orders from Caesar support.

He should have been aware that many of the senators hated him, but he
dismissed his security force not long before the assassination.

If he hadn't dismissed it the assassination attempt might not have
succeed.

*-What should he have been aware of? --Many of the senators hated him.*

*-What shouldn't he have done? --He dismissed his security force.*

*He appointed members of his army to rule while he was away from Rome.*

On the day of his assassination, it is reported that Caesar may have
been handed a warning note as he entered the senate.

If he did receive such a note, he didn't read it.

It seems that he was in a state of denial and refused to recognize the
danger that was facing him.

Once he had entered the senate, he was surrounded by senators holding
daggers, or knives.

The first blow hit Caesar in his neck and drew blood.

Then the other senators joined in and stabbed him repeatedly until he
fell to the floor and died. In total he suffered 23 knife woods.

*-If Caesar received a warning note, why didn't he read it? --He may
have been overconfident and in a state of denial.*

*If he did receive the warning note and had read it, he might have
escaped.*

With his death, power shifted to his adopt son, Octavian, who vide revan
against the assassins.

Eventually, several of the leading assassins was either killed or
committed suicide.

After a power struggle Octavian strengthened his position as leader and
ruled the Empire for many years. In the end Caesar's attempts to end
corruption failed.

Another event that shocked the world was the assassination of US
president, John Kennedy.

He was shot while riding in a motorcade in a city of Dallas, Texas.

Kennedy and his wife were sitting in an open car, waving to a large
crowd of people when he was shot.

They were sitting in an open car with no protection because the sky was
clear.

It had rained until about 10 a.m. but then the sun came out.

If the sky hadn't cleared there would have been a bubble top or clear
roof on the car.

This would have prevented the assassination.

Kennedy wanted it down so that he could be closer to the crows who had
there to agree him.

*-Why did Kennedy prefer to riding in an open car? --He wanted to be
closer to the crows.*

Another factor that contributed to the assassination was the route of
the motorcade through the city. The route was published several days
earlier in the local newspapers.

The motorcade was to pass through downtown Dallas and around a sharp
corner, near the building where the assassin worked.

From that building there was a clear view of the president's car.

If the route had been different the assassination probably wouldn't have
taken place.

*-What made it possible for the assassin to get a clear shot to the
president's car? -- The motorcade passed close by the building where he
worked.*

The president was struck by two bullets, but it was the second one that
probably killed him. That was the fatal shot.

It opened a massive wood in his head.

Sitting beside him, his wife's last words to her husband were:" Jack,
Jack, can you hear me? I love you Jack ".

The assassin's quick shots were incratably accurate

If the fatal shot had been off by just a little, Kennedy might have
survived.

So if any of these factors had been different history would have
changed.

Kennedy's death disillusioned many Americans who had been inspired by
his vision for the future.

With his death a whole generation of Americans woke up to a reality
where their dreams for a brighter future had been shattered.

*It's highly unlikely that the assassin would have used that location
had the view not been clear.*

Dialogue

W1: I'm sorry to hear about your father. I hope he died peacefully.

W2: Hmm, he knew it was coming and he had a good life. He's been sick
for about a year. Luckily, there wasn't much pain.

W1: So how was your mother?

W2: She isn't taken it well. Even though she knew it was coming, she has
a hard time without him. She says the house seems so empty and she feels
useless.

W1: I can imagine. Does she have many friends?

W2: She has a few. But she's never been very social. Maybe she'll get
out a bit more now but I don't think that's very likely. She's also
beginning to lose her memory.

W1: Oh, that's too bad. My mum is losing her memory too. Sometimes she
doesn't know who I am. She mixes me up with my sister.

*-Why is unlikely that her mother will begin to make more friends?
--She's never been very social.*

W2: Does she live by herself?

W1: She did until about a year ago. Then we had her come and stay with
us.

W2: Oh, is that working out?

W1: It was okay at first, but now with her memory problems, it isn't
working. We are thinking about putting her in a senior living community.
It's expensive but it can provide her with her support needs.

*-They are thinking about putting her mother into a senior community
because.... --her memory problems are getting worse.*

*-In addition to providing a place to live, the service of a senior
community.... --include meals and medical support. Senior communities
generally provide meals and medical support.*

W2: We may have to do that too. My husband and mother don't get along at
all. He can't relax when she's around.

When I mentioned it to him, he said he would consider it but only if it
were for a very short time.

W1: Well, I'm sorry you have to deal with it. It doesn't seem like there
are any good choices.

W2: Hmm, I'm afraid that's right. We are getting older too. This is
another reminder of our more telety. We are no longer children so now
it's our turn to take care of our parents.

*-Under what condition will her husband agree to have her mother come
and live with them? --It has to be for a very short time.*

W1: The way I see it is a reminder for us to enjoy our life while we
can. If you like I can send you information about some senior
communities.

W2: Please do, we need to start making plans.

W1: There are waiting list to get into some of them, so you shouldn't
wait to apply.

*-Why does they need to start making plans? --They shouldn't wait
because some options require a waiting period. It doesn't seem that
there are any good choices.* 讲的是*seem like*，卡面是*seem
that*，要读成*seem that*，不然会低分。

Reading

**The Assassination of Caesar**

Should a good leader be loved or feared? This question is as relevant to
leaders today as it was to Julius Caesar when he took control of Rome in
44 BC. How Caesar treated his enemies is a valuable lesson on
forgiveness, arrogance, and absolute power.

After Caesar seized power, he had to decide how to handle those who
opposed him. Roman politics had always been bloody. The previous
dictator had murdered 5,000 of his rivals and confiscated their property
after coming to power. Caesar's enemies expected a similar punishment.

But Caesar was determined not to rule through fear. If he were to reform
the government, he would need the support of the people. So he made a
fateful decision: rather than punish or kill his enemies, he offered
them mercy and incentives. He didn't seize their property, and he even
rewarded some of them with high-ranking government positions.

However, not all of his enemies wanted to be forgiven. Caesar's rivals
came from the aristocracy. Many had held power in the Senate for
centuries. By expanding and reforming in Senate, Caesar had shifted
power away from the aristocracy and taken it for himself. The
high-ranking positions he had given as rewards had no real authority.
For the aristocracy, to live without power was not forgiveness, but
humiliation.

Caesar should have known that many senators hated him, but his arrogance
seems to have blinded him. After he made himself dictator for life, he
proclaimed himself a god and consolidated more power. These actions
infuriated his enemies and even his allies. However, he still considered
many senators to be his loyal friends. He even dismissed his personal
security force. Ironically, when he was assassinated, it was his good
friends, Brutus, who led the plot.

Perhaps it is better for a leader to be feared. If Caesar hadn't let his
rivals live, he might not have been murdered. But was forgiveness the
problem? Caesar's reforms took power from the aristocracy, and his
arrogance angered both friends and enemies. Perhaps if he hadn't been so
arrogant, or acted like a god, he would have survived.

*-Which factor help contribute to Caesar's assassination? --His reformed
shifted power away from the ruling class. -What does the author believe
Caesar's arrogance? --It blinded him to the dangers around him and led
to his death.*

*-How did Caesar treat his enemies after he seized power? --He offered
them mercy and incentives.*

*-To consolidate power means... -to combine and unify its sources.*

*-To reform something means... -to make changes to it to improve it.*

*-Why does Caesar's enemies expect to be punished by Caesar? -The
previous dictator had murdered 5,000 of his rivals and confiscated their
property after coming to power.*

*-How does Caesar handle his opposition? -So he made a fateful decision:
rather than punish or kill his enemies, he offered them mercy and
incentives.*

*For the aristocracy, to live without power was humiliating.*

**Unban Elderly in India**

Lack of adequate are for senior citizens is a real issue in India that
cuts across economic and social strata. Many of us have personally lived
through and experienced it with our parents and elders. Most senior
citizens, especially those who live independently, are unable to get the
care and trusted support they need. As a result, they compromise on
their needs and lifestyle. Their children or caregivers are forced to
spend disproportionate time, and/or resources to support them. So much
so, that many women are forced to stay away from the workforce to take
care of elders at home.

The imminent demographic, economic and social changes that accompany the
growing population of senior citizens, together with the rising
aspirations of the young, are rapidly driving up the magnitude of this
problem. If we look at numbers, India is home to 115 million elderly,
which is more than 8% of the population. Many of us don't realize it,
but that puts India into the category of "aging" countries. While
India's overall population will grow by about 40% from 2006 to 2050, the
population of the oldest elderly, 80 plus, will grow 500% over the same
period. This should be enough to make one take notice. Engaging with the
elderly will become one of the biggest areas of work in the country.
Some may see this as a challenge and some as a huge opportunity.

Businesses have attempted to address this only sporadically, with
emotional advertising that features a poignant conversation involving an
elderly grandparent. But there has been very little effort to provide
products and services. The reasons for such apathy, especially among
entrepreneurs, are not difficult to guess. Many feel that the elderly
are cynical, not open to experiment and not willing to spend. Investors
see bigger opportunities for exponential growth in addressing young,
upwardly mobile consumers.

Still, I'm left with the question of why aren't more products and
services designed for the elderly? I sense a problem looking for a
solution.

*-From this article, we learn that... -There aren't enough products and
services for the elderly.*



Listening

The world's population is growing at a rate of a little more than 1% per
year.

However, not all segments of the population are growing at the same
rate.

This graph shows the rate of growth of 3 different groups: children,
adults and the elderly.

As you can see, while the population of children is fairly constant, the
elderly population is increasing at the fastest rate.

This is due to very low birth rates in developed countries and birth
rate declines in most developing countries. As a result of these trends,
the world's population is aging.

*-What does the graph show? --Different segments of the population are
growing at different rates.*

Between 2015 and 2050, the percentage of world's population over 60 is
expected to nearly double. In 2015 there were 900 million people over
60, in 2050 the number should be around 2 billion.

Aging populations are becoming a huge problem in many countries,
especially developing countries.

It used to be that many elderly people lived with their family and
helped take care of the next generation.

They had a place to stay and people help take care of them when they
need assistance.

Now however many elderly people or senior citizens are left on their
own.

This is partly the results of people having fewer children and also
because of massive urbanization.

Young and middle-aged adults have left rural areas for economic
opportunities only available in large urban centers.

As a result, there is no one to care for the elderly who are left behind
to live on their own. This is especially true in developing countries.

*-Massive urbanization means... -people moving from rural to urban
areas.*

With an aging population, health problems become a growing concern.

Some of the leading conditions that accompany aging including vision
problems, hearing loss, dibidies, and demenchies such as outsummer
diseases.

These problems can lead to disabilities, they make it difficult to live
without assistances.

With diseases such as out summers people lose their memory and unable to
recognize their own children.

Worldwide, more than 46% of people age 60 and over have disabilities.

Getting meals and medical care for example becomes both expensive and
difficult.

As a result the cause of providing services to the sick and disabled can
become a huge problem.

*-What is an example of disability? --Memory loss.*

*With an aging population there would be more sick and disabled people
to care for. Memory loss is one example of a disability.*

In economics, the dependency ratio shows the relationship between the
number of people not in the labor force and those in the labor force.

Those not in the labor force are the dependent part of the population.

Those in the labor force are the productive part of the population.

A high dependency ratio means that there are fewer working people to
support health, social security and education services, which are used
by the dependent sectors by a population.

This number is calculated by adding together the total number of young
and old people, and dividing that number by the number of working aging
people.

*-What is the opposite of dependent? --independent.*

Sometimes the dependent ratio is presented in two parts.

One part focuses on the ratio between children and working age
population.

This is the dependent ratio for the young.

The others is the ratio between the elderly and working age population,
which is the dependent ratio for the old.

Here are some dependent ratios for the old in 5 countries, China, India,
Japan, the US and UK.

It shows the ratios at 3 different points of time, 2000, 2015 and 2050.
Note that greatest percentage change from 2015 to 2050 is for China.

The dependent ratio nearly triples, from 13.1 to 39.

The other countries show gains, but as a percentage increase, they are
less. In Japan, the ratio increases from 43.6 to 71.8, which is less
than double.

*-What is the dependency ratio for Japan expected to be in 2050? -71.8*

*-In which country has the dependency ratio increase the most since
2000? --Japan.*

The life expectancy for Japan in 2050 is predicted to be 93, which is
the highest in these countries.

A high life expectancy obveriously increases the dependency ratio.

And note that the dependency ratio ignores the fact that those counted
in the elderly segment of a population are not necessarily dependent.

An increasing proportion of them are working and many of those in the
working aging segment may not be working.

So this way of calculating the dependency ratio in a country can be
misleading.

By pointing this out, we can see the danger of using such a number to
make policy without understanding how they are calculated.

In the end details are important.

*-How does the life expectancy of a country affect to its dependency
ratio? --The higher the life expectancy, the higher the dependency
ratio.*

*The unemployment rate isn't taken into account, so the dependency ratio
doesn't change.*

Dialogue

John's Resignation

LV6-U2-P4-D

A: So, what is it that you wanted to see me about John?

B: I thought it would be good for us to have a heart to heart
conversation.

A: You're unhappy with how things are going, right?

B: Yes I am. But I don't want others in the company to know. I thought
we should meet offsite.

A: OK. So, what are you thinking?

B. To be perfectly, Frank, I've decided that it doesn't make sense for
me to stay with the company. You're the CEO, but I don't agree with how
you're handling things. I can no longer support you.

A: Mmmm, OK, I've suspected it that for quite a while.

B: I'm still happy to support the company if I can. Of course, but I
like to work elsewhere. There's a startup that has contacted to me and
I'm planning to join them as soon as I can.

C: Are you gentlemen ready to order?

A: No, not yet. Could you come back in a few minutes?

C: Certainly, sir.

A: Well, we're going to miss you. There's nothing I can say that would
change your mind?

B: No, it's too late for that. I no longer have confidence in your
decisions. Your latest business plan for example makes no sense at all.
It makes its weaker in the areas where we are strong and it takes in the
new areas where we can't compete.

A: Well, that's where we disagree. So, if that's the way you feel about
it, I agree that it's best that you work somewhere else. Still, I hope
we can count on you when we need you for something.

B: Sure, keep me informed and let me know if and when I can be useful.

A: I will. So how do you propose that we communicate this to the
company?

B: I'll write up something and you can review it. I'll make it sound as
positive as possible.

A: OK, thanks. I'm sure it will come as a shock to many. Things are
already difficult enough.

B: I know and maybe I'm wrong. Maybe your plan will work. If so, I'll be
the first congratulate you. Are you ready to order?

A: Sure, though I don't feel like eating much.

B: Waiter.

Reading

**Trends in Global Life Expectancy**

People today are living longer than at any point in human history.
Virtually every country enjoys a higher life expectancy than it did in
the 19^th^ century. In 1870, the average person could expect to live for
30 years. By 2015 that number had increased to 71, more than doubling.

The West was the first region to see an increase in life expectancy.
Scientific discoveries led to a growing awareness of germs and disease.
New medicines and treatments were developed, and people adopted more
hygienic lifestyles. Public health measures were a major factor. During
the 20^th^ century, the average lifespan in the United States increased
by more than 30 years, of which 25 years can be attributed to advances
in public health. Between 1900 and 1950, Europe's life expectancy grew
from 43 years to 65 years. However, this did not reflect the experience
of the rest of the world, which largely remained impoverished and
underdeveloped. In 1950, Asia's average life expectancy was 42 and
Africa's was 36. In the follow decades, living conditions in both
continents improved, along with the life expectancy. As Asian economies
grew, people had better access to health services and greater quantities
of food. In Africa however, several countries did not see significant
economic growth, but still enjoyed a growing life expectancy. This was
due to better access to medicines and vaccines. As of 2015, the life
expectancies of Asia and Africa were about 72 and 60 years respectively.

In all countries, some facts are universal, including higher mortality
rates associated with childhood. Therefore, life expectancy increases
with age. Economic conditions also affect life expectancy. For example,
in the UK, life expectancy among the wealthiest is several years higher
than among the poorest. This may reflect factors such as diet and
lifestyle, as well as access to medical care.

And finally, women enjoy an advantage over men. Females have a higher
survival rate from birth to old age. Of individuals aged 110, 90% are
women. In fact, for almost all animal species except birds, females have
high survival rates than males.

**Virtual Heaven**

If you could live forever, would you want to? The challenge of keeping
your body alive seems impossible, but some scientists are working on an
alternative. They want to create a digital copy of your "self" and keep
that copy "alive" long after your physical body has stopped functioning.

In effect, their plan is to clone a person electronically. Unlike
ordinary physical clones -- which have identical features as their
parents, but which are independent organisms, each with a different
conscious self -- your electronic clone would believe itself to be you.

One plan relies on the development of nanotechnology. Ray Kurzweil, a
leading futurist, predicts that within two or three decades we will have
tiny transmitter that can be injected into the brain. Once there they
would line up alongside neurons and monitor the details of the brain's
activity. They would then be able to transmit that information to
receivers insider a special helmet, allowing us to map the brain.

As a further step, Kurzweil foresees using these tiny transmitters to
connect you to a world of virtual reality. With the transmitters in
place, you could think your way onto the internet. Instead of seeing
pictures on a screen, you would see them in your mind. Rather than send
emails to your friends, you could meet them on some virtual tropical
beach and exchange messages in "virtual person".

For a futurist like Ray, this would be heaven, a virtual heaven. Once
you upload the brain onto the internet and log on to that virtual world,
your body can be left to decompose while your virtual self can play
games for as long as you wish.

However, there is still a problem. To exist on the net, your virtual
self will have to reside on the computer of a web-hosting company. These
companies want to be paid real money, or they will delete your "self"
and sell the place to someone else. With your body long gone how will
you play?

Unit 3



Listening

John is the owner of a small consulting business.

Last night some important documents were stolen from John's office.

There were locked up in the safe and the only way to open the safe was
with an 8-digit access code.

Who ever got into that safe must have had that code.

So now he's trying to figure out who could have gotten it.

Only two people in the company were authorized to have the code.

To improve security John change the code every month.

He had the code, of course, and so did his assistant, Sylvia.

As far as he knew, nobody else had it, or had ever asked to use it to
get something from the safe.

There was no reason for Sylvia to take the documents, so he couldn't
imagine that it was her.

That wouldn't make sense and she was completely trustworthy.

Besides, she was on a business trip and wouldn't be back for several
more days.

So somebody else must have had the code and stolen the document. If so,
who was it, and how did he get the code?

One possibility is that the code was written down somewhere, maybe in a
notebook.

Sylvia was famous for written things down.

She had a notoriously bad memory, so she kept a lot of notes.

Maybe she wasn't careful and someone looked into her notes and
discovered the code.

But Sylvia wasn't that careless or irresponsible.

She would never have written the code down on a piece of paper. So that
couldn't be the answer.

*-Why wouldn't she have written the code down on a piece of paper? --She
wasn't that irresponsible.*

Another possibility is that somebody hacked into her computer.

She had probably stored the code somewhere on her computer and the thief
was able to get it from there.

But who could it have been?

Suddenly he realized that there was a new IT guy in the office.

He maintained the company's computer network and provided technical
support for the stuff.

Perhaps he was the guilty one.

If anyone could have done it, he certainly had the skills.

He was a security expert and he had helped Sylvia installing something
on her computer last week.

*-Why was the new IT guy probably the guilty one? --He had the necessary
skills.*

*-Where does Sylvia probably store the access code? --somewhere on her
computer.*

Then John realized that nobody had done a proper background check on the
guy.

One of the other engineers in the company had recommend him and he
seemed nice.

They had been in a hurry to hire someone for the position so they didn't
check his background very carefully.

Suddenly he had a bad feeling.

Immediately he used his smart phone to check the company's bank
accounts.

To his horror he found that a large amount of money was missing from one
of these accounts.

There had been a large withdrawal earlier that morning, more than 75
thousand dollars.

He then discovered that the money had been wired to an account in
another country.

So not only did the IT guy get the access code for the safe, but he also
got the log-in information for the bank. This was a disaster.

*-Besides getting the access code, what else was the thief able to do?
--He was able to get into the company's bank accounts.*

*-What did he discover when he checked the company's bank account? --A
lot of money was missing.*

John immediately called the police and reported the incident.

He also called the bank to see if they could stop the transaction.

Unfortunately they said it was too late, the transaction had gone
through.

Just then John got an email with a subject line, from the IT guy.

It showed a smiling face and said, thank you for being so stupid.

Don't waste your time trying to find me.

I've left the country and will never return.

Be thankful that I didn't take everything in the account.

This should be a good lesson for you.

It was signed, your IT guy.

*-What was the lesson John should learn? --to take security seriously.*

*He tried to stop the withdrawal of money from the account, but it was
too late. To hack into a computer means to use it to gain unauthorized
access to data.*

Dialogue

M: Well, what did you think of my presentation?

W: Do you want me to be frank? I know you worked very hard on it.

M: Yes, give it to me straight. I have my own opinion too, but I
appreciate your comments and suggestions.

W: You said you have your own opinion about it. So how do you think it
went?

M: I thought it went okay at first, but I could feel that there were
some bad transitions. I think I spent too much time on some slides and
didn't express them well.

*-What kind of feedback does he want? --an honest assessment.*

W: I agree on this points. But to me, it was flat. Five minutes into it,
I had a hard time paying attention.

M: Flat? Do you mean my voice?

W: Yes, that's part of it. There was very little passion, almost like
you were reading it. I'm sure you can do better.

*-What happened five minutes into the presentation? --She lost interest
in it.*

M: Do you have any suggestions?

W: First, let me say that I like the slides themselves. The designs were
nice and easy to read. But the one thing you didn't do was engage with
the audience. You focused on the slides and didn't address the audience.
M: Oh, I was trying to, but I guess I was too nervous. I didn't want to
forget anything.

*-What did he do too much of during his presentation? --he focused too
much on the slides and not enough on the audience.*

W: You have a great smile. You need to show that smile and your
expressions when you present. Make eye contact.

M: When you present, I noticed you always do that. And you pause between
ideas. But it seems so easy for you. W: For me I look the faces in the
audience. I watch their expression. I really try to communicate with
them. Once I do that it comes naturally, because it becomes a real
communication.

*-What comes naturally after she trys to communicate with the audience?
--She's able to connect with them.*

M: You seem to enjoy it.

W: Well, I'm always nervous too before I get started. But once I connect
with audience, I'm okay.

M: So connecting with the audience is the key. Focus on them and not me,
right?

W: Yes, well put. In fact, if you do that, you'll have to adjust your
presentation. It has to flow, like in a real conversation. We have to
respond to each other. And the pauses are so that the presentation can
breathe.

*-What helps get rid of nervousness? --Connecting with the audience.*

M: Hmm, it seems so obvious, but I never thought it like that. That's
great advices. I wish we had talk before my presentation.

W: If we had, you may not have been open like you are now. Anyway, I'm
sure your next presentations will improve. I take practice as anything.
Don't be too hard on yourself.

M: No, I won't. But next time I'll do better, and I hope you're there.
W: Ok, well, let's get back to work.

*-What kind of attitude does he have? --It's positive.*

*To be hard on someone means to put pressure on them.*

*She describes a good presentation as if it were alive and breathing. He
has a very positive attitude which should help him grow.*

*She thought his presentation lacked emotion and was too mechanical.*

Reading

**Depletion of Fossil Fuels**

A number of scientists are emphasizing the tremendous challenges that
will soon be faced when the depletion of fossil fuel supplies coincides
with an alarming increase in the global population. They highlight
agriculture which is heavily dependent not only on gasoline to fuel
machinery, but also on the petrochemicals necessary to manufacture
synthetic fertilizers and pesticides. Without these petrochemicals, crop
yields would be only a fraction of what they are today. To assume that
an abundant source of renewable energy will address this challenge is to
ignore the vital non-fuel uses of petrochemicals.

Then there is the challenge posed to the current levels of mobility. As
a fuel, gasoline is unrivalled in its portability. Electricity requires
bulky batteries and hydrogen is notoriously difficult to store. Biofuels
might seem like an alternative, but the energy consumed when converting
corn into bioethanol, for instance, greatly exceeds the output when the
fuel is utilized. In any case, once we reach a crisis in the food
supply, it will not make sense to divert food crops to other uses.

Although there seems to be a widespread belief that the era of oil
dependency is coming to an end due to some technological remedy, this
may be mistaken. Relying on such an assumption can lead to complacency
and a failure to take precautions. Experts may not be able to come up
with the kind of solution that can lead to a pain-free transition.

Scientists warn that relying on alternative resources might only support
half of the global population. The absence of a realistic alternative to
fossil fuels will mean that the first priority will be to curb the
demand for food.

*-The aim of the article is to --highlight the seriousness of the
situation.*

*-According to the article, why doesn't it make sense to convert corn
into biofuel? -Food crops such as corn are needed for food.*

*-To assume means --to believe without proof.*

*-To take precautions means --to act to prevent a problem from
happening.*

*-What would happen to crop yields without petrochemicals? -Without
these petrochemicals, crop yields would be only a fraction of what they
are today.*

*-What widespread belief might be mistaken? -Although there seems to be
a widespread belief that the era of oil dependency is coming to an end
due to some technological remedy, this may be mistaken.*

**The Meaning of Catching 22**

One of the most interesting books of the 20^th^ century was the novel,
Catch 22. In the novel, the term "a catch 22 situation" was introduced.
The term has nothing to do with catching anything. It has a much deeper
meaning, and it describes a kind of logical conundrum that's worth
exploring. First, it's important to put the phrase into context. In the
novel, a group of American bomber pilots is on an island in the
Mediterranean. They face death almost every day when they fly their
bombing missions. Many have already lost their lives. The remaining
pilots know that it is only a matter of time before they will be the
next victims.

One of the characters in the novel is a doctor. It is his job to see
that the pilots are fit to fly. In particular, there is a rule that says
he has to ground anyone who is crazy. To ground them means to remove
them from active duty so that they don't fly.

Some of the men believed in the principles they were fighting for. They
were willing to give their lives for their countries. But to others,
this was crazy. They thought the whole thing was insane. One of them,
Yossarian, wanted out. He was friends with the doctor, and he wanted the
doctor to ground him.

When Yossarian asked the doctor to ground him, the doctor replied:
"You're wasting your time. You're not crazy." Yossarian told him to ask
one of the other pilots, Clevinger, to tell him how crazy he was.
"There's no pilot. He's crazy," the doctor replied. "Crazy people can't
decide whether you are crazy or not."

"Clevinger isn't crazy! He's one of the sanest pilots here."

"So he's obviously out of his head," said the Doc. "He's got to be
insane to keep on flying combat missions after all the close calls he's
had."

"Well, if he's crazy, why don't you ground him?"

"I can't unless he asks to be grounded. That's part of the rule."

"So all he has to do is ask?"

"No, then I can't ground him."

"So there's a catch," said Yossarian, trying to get things straight.

"Sure, there's a catch," said the Doc, with a slight smile. "Catch 22.
If he asks, then he can't be crazy. Only those who are crazy are
grounded".

"That's some catch," observed Yossarian.

"It's the best there is," the Doc replied.



Listening

Despite advances in technology, one of the biggest threats to human
survival comes from primitive life forms.

Infectious diseases are caused by microorganisms, such as bacteria,
viruses and parasites.

These organisms have no access to education or technology, but they
present a huge challenge to humanity.

That's because they are adaptable.

Just as adaptability has helped humans survive, it makes it more
difficult to control infectious diseases.

There are several kinds of infectious diseases.

Bacteral infection, such as immoner, are caused by bacteria.

These infections can be treated by entirea, which kill the bacteria.

Viral infections are caused by viruses, such as the influenza viruses.

These can sometimes be treated by accins, such as the flu assc.

An example of the parasites confection is Malaria.

Malaria is caused by parasites transmitted to humans by infected
mosquitoes.

Once inside the body, the parasites can be difficult to kill or control.
And of course the parasites are also adaptable.

*-What's an example of a* parasites *infection? --malaria.*

How serious are infectious diseases?

Consider what happened in 1918, the influenza pandemic.

It started in the fall of 1918 with what seemed to be something no more
serious than the common cold.

In the next two years however, it infected a fifth of the world's
population.

In fact, it turned out to be the most deadly epidemic in history,
killing between 20 and 40 million people.

The influenza viruses that cause it was much stronger that previous
influenza viruses.

Its more telenty rate was 2.5% compared to 0.1% in previous influenza
epidemics.

It struke quickly and without mercy, sometimes killing people within
hours.

Schools and businesses closed in many places and people wore masks to
prevent transmission of the viruses through the air.

What was unusual about this pain epidemic was that it was most deadly
for people aged 20 to 40, rather than the elderly and young children.

*-The more telenty rate indicates --the proportion of infected people
who died*

*-What did people do to prevent the transmission of the viruses through
the air? --They wore masks.*

Now a century later we have flu vaccines that help reduce the serviou of
epidemics.

These vaccines need to be updated every year because the virus changes
and new strain inmerge.

What researches fear is that new strain of the virus were developed and
cause another pandemic.

Once now occurs transmission of the disease will be even faster than
before.

An onintend of quan of our improve transportation system will be the
speed of which the epidemic can spread. Exports predict that public
health system will be over wealmed and unable to react quickly enough.

*-A new strain of a virus is... -a mutated form of the virus.*

*-What has reduced the seriety of epidemics? --vaccines.*

So the best defense will be to prevent an outbreak from occurring.

This will require global cooperation and sharing of data.

It may also require changes in how humans interact with animals.

Animals such as birds and pigs carry viruses that may mutate into a
strain that can infect humans.

Such a new strain could lead to another pandemic well before a new
vaccine could be developed.

Since diseases and epidemics don't stop at national borders, this is a
global issue requiring global action. The threat of a global epidemic is
another example of why we must learn to live together.

*-One danger is that animal virus... -may mutate into a strain that can
infect humans. An improved transportation system allows epidemic to
spread more quickly.*

Dialogue

W1: You know, my husband and I are having a terrific fight over how to
raise our son.

W2: What about? He's only 4 years old.

W1: My husband thinks I'm putting too much pressure on him. He thinks
it's the wrong thing to do.

W2: I wouldn't know. I'm not even married yet. That's my problem. I wish
I had a husband to disagree with.

*-Her husband thinks they should... -put less pressure on their son.*

*-Her husband thinks it's wrong to... -put too much pressure on their
son.*

*-She and her husband are fighting about... -how to raise their son.*

W1: Well, he thinks it's important for kids to have time to be bored.

W2: Bored?

W1: Yes, he really said that. Can you believe it?

W2: Why does he think so? Did he have time to be bored when he was a
boy?

W1: Well, he grew up in a countryside. He said he had to find things for
himself to do. He says he feels sorry for kids these days because their
days are so structured.

*-Why does her husband feel sorry for kids these days? --He thinks their
days are too structured.*

*-From this conversation, her husband probably... -has good memories of
his childhood. They are fighting about how much pressure to put on their
son.*

W2: Hmm, I see his point. But things have changed a lot since he was a
boy.

W1: That's exactly what I told him. Then he started getting angry.

W2: That isn't sound like him. He's usually so calm and reserved. In
fact I can't ever remember hearing him express an opinion.

W1: Well, the other day our boy said he didn't like one of his teachers.
It's his English teacher. And that got my husband's attention.

W2: What happened?

W1: He got angry and said he wasn't happy with all these emphasis on
English and math. He said I should find someplace for our boy to do more
of what he wants to do. He said to find a class or teacher who encourage
his kids to explore things.

W2: That sounds a bit idealistic.

W1: That's what I told him. Then he said it's important to learn how to
independent, and not always depend on being told what to do. He said
that can develop creativity and a lot of learning.

W2: Certainly. But what happens when he's behind all the other kids in
school? Won't he be discouraged?

W1: He said to our boy deal with it, and see what happens. Some people
are competitive and some aren't.

*-What did she think might happen to a child who is falling behind the
others in school? --She worries that the child might be discouraged.*

W2: Anyway, it's an interesting point of view. It may works for some
kids and not for others. What about your boy? What do you think?

W1: He has a good imagination. Sometimes he talks himself as really
likes music and dancing. He has a lot of energy. Sometimes it's
exhausting to be around him.

W2: I guess if I were you I just give him a lot of choices and see where
his interests take him. And he needs a place where he can use all that
energy.

W1: Yes, that's what my husband wants to. I just get nervous because all
his friends are taking classes. I don't want him to fall behind.

*-What is this conversation mostly about? --It's about how to develop a
child's imagination and creativity.*

W2: I don't know what to say. Maybe you can do some research and see
what others advise. I'm sure you are not the only one facing this
problem. At least your husband is taking an interest. If I ever get
married I hope my husband will be as involved as yours is. But he has to
help you with this and not just complain.

W1: Yes, that's where we were fighting about. I can't be expected to do
this on my own. We have to do this together.

W2: Good luck. And wish me luck in finding a husband, okay?

*They both think her husband should help more and not just complain.*

Reading

**Hedy Lamarr: A Hollywood Star and Mother of Wi-Fi**

Hedy Lamarr was born Hedwig Eva Maria Kiesler in 1914 in Vienna,
Austria. By the time she was a teenager, she had decided to drop out of
school and seek fame as an actress. She first appeared in a German film
in 1930. She was attractive and talented enough to be in three more
films in 1931, but it was her controversial film "Ecstasy" that brought
her worldwide fame as an actress.

In 1937 she fled from her country and secretly moved to Hollywood, where
she reinvented herself. She changed her name to Hedy Lamarr, with the
nickname "The Most Beautiful Woman in Films". However, Lamarr defied the
leading-lady stereotype by also pursing an interest in mathematics and
engineering. She soon took up inventing. Her earliest inventions
included an improved traffic stoplight and a tablet that would dissolve
in water to create a carbonated drink.

With the ongoing World War, Lamarr was inspired to contribute to the war
effort. She designed a radio guidance system for torpedoes. With the
help of composer George Antheil, whom she met in 1940, she discovered a
way to break up signals and transmit them over different frequencies.
Using a method similar to the way player pianos work, they designed a
frequency-hopping system that would continually change the radio signals
sent to a torpedo. While others, including Nikola Tesla, had explored
similar ideas of frequency hopping, Lamarr and Antheil obtained a patent
for their invention in 1942 for what would become known as
spread-spectrum technology. Although the U.S. Navy did not adopt the
technology during the war, it was used during the Cuban Missile Crisis
in 1962. For decades Lamarr's technology remained behind the scenes, but
ultimately it led to the creation of today's spread-spectrum
communication technology, such as Wi-Fi networks, mobile phones, GPS and
Bluetooth technologies.

Lamarr and Antheil eventually received several awards for their lifetime
creative achievements that contributed so much to society. They were
inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 2014, after her
death in 2000.

**The Challenge of AI**

The Internet and smartphones have changed the world and how we relate to
each other. Instead of meeting in person, we increasingly interface
through handheld devices. In a sense, real people are being removed,
replaced by technology and virtual friends. Some people even say that
they prefer to confide in their virtual friends rather than their real
friends!

AI, or artificial intelligence, is another technology that is highly
disruptive. With AI, smartphones and other devices will have even more
capabilities. They will be able to converse with us and tell us jokes.
They may even become personal tutors, and replace our online human
tutors. They will be able to do this because they will have an access to
our life histories. They will know what kind of problems we have, our
preferences, and any content we want to learn or practice. They will be
able to adapt to our need and be available at any time. And all this
will be at less cost than using a human.

In fact, the substitution of AIs for human labor has the potential to
transform our world. Experts warn that smart machines may cause
widespread unemployment. Many workers will become redundant, replaced by
machines that can perform cognitive tasks better than people. An even
greater danger is that they will develop personalities and become more
interesting than people. Work is already underway to produce AI
companions for lonely people. Are these developments something to worry
about or something to welcome? How are they different than developments
in the past, such as the industrial revolution? Cars replaced horses;
machines and industrial robots replaced factory workers.

Since the shift to AI is inevitable, the challenge for policy makers
will be to help existing workers acquire new skills. Future generations
must be prepared for a workplace populated by AIs that will continue to
develop and take on new tasks. Are we up to the task?



Listening

In 1971, psychologists created one of the most important experiments in
the history of psychology.

The experiment, known as the Standford prison experiment, looked at the
impact of situations on human behavior.

The researchers, led by Philep zenbadou, wanted to know how situations
could affect how people behave.

In particular, they wanted to know if good people would change their
personalities and lose their values.

In the experiment, participants were divided into 2 groups.

One group became prison guards and the other group became prison
inmates.

*-What kind of the experiment was it? --It's was a psychology
experiment.*

The experiment was set up in Standford University psychology building.

A group of 24 students was chosen to play the roles, 12 guards and 12
prisoners.

The students came from a large group of volunteers, who wanted to
participate in a psychology experiment.

Those who were chosen had no criminal background, and had no significant
medical or sick-logical problems. They agreed to participate in the
experiment for one to two weeks.

*-What's another word for significant? --important.*

*The experiment was scheduled to last one to two weeks.*

The prisoners had to remain in prison 24 hours a day during the
experiment.

Guards worked in teams of three and assigned to work in 8-hour shifts.

Unlike the prisoners, they were free to return to their homes between
shifts.

Hidden cameras and microphones were used to observe the behaviors of
both prisoners and guards.

*-Which group had to work in 8-hour shifts? --the guards.*

*Hidden cameras and microphones were used to observe the prisoners and
guards. The prisoners had to remain in prison for the duration of the
experiment.*

The simulated prison included three small prison cells, six feet by nine
feet.

Each cell had three small beds and held three prisoners.

There was also a closet that served as a solitary confinement room.

This was used to isolate prisoners who need to be punish for bad
behavior.

Guards were instructured not to physically hurt the prisoners in any
way.

Prisoners were to be addressed by their assigned numbers, and never by
name.

To prevent eye contact with the prisoners, guards wore mirrored
sunglasses.

This were done to dehumanize the relationship between guards and
prisoners.

*-What is the very small room usually used to store clothes? --a
closet.*

*-To isolate someone means... -to keep them apart from others.*

Though the experiment was designed to last for 14 days, it had to be
stopped after just 6 days.

It had to be stopped because what was happening to the participants.

The interactions between the prisoners and guards had become hostile and
degrading.

The guards had become aggressive and brutal, and the prisoners were
passive and depressed.

As a result, 5 of the prisoners had to be released earlier, because of
severe negative emotion.

Even the researchers were affected, and they began to overlook what was
happening.

Instead of halting the experiment, they let it continue.

They themselves had become dehumanized by the situation they had
designed. Finally, they realized that the experiment had to be stopped.

*-To become dehumanized means... -to no longer act or feel like a human
being.*

What the experiment demonstrates is the powerful effect that situations
can have on human behavior.

Given the position of power, people can begin to behave differently than
they normally would.

They can begin to behave in an aggressive manner, while those with no
power can become passive and depressed. In other words, the experiment
shows that situations can cause a busi of behavior.

There are some important criticism of this experiment.

One criticism is that it is an example of unethical research.

It went on longer than it should have.

It is also unrepresentative since the participants were mostly white,
middle-class males.

Despite the criticism the experiment remains the most important study of
human behavior.

Recent example of the Standford effect may include the treatment of
prisoners of war by American soiders in the Irac war.

Other possible example include bullying at school and gan behavior.

According to the head researcher, Philer inbador, it helps to explain
how ordinary people sometimes turn evil. If situations do influence
human behavior, then managing situations can be a way of controlling
people.

*-What's the possible example of the Standford effect? --bullying at
school.*

*In a bullying situation some students take on a new, evil personality.*

Dialogue

A TEST OF CHARACTER

A: Hi, What's so urgent? when you messaged me, you seemed really upset.

B: Yes I was. I was confused and I still am. I need your advice. You've
known me for a long time.

A: You are my best friend, so what is it?

B: I've been offered another job.

A: Oh, That's usually a nice thing. So what's the problem?

B: The problem is that they are our strongest competitor.

A: Oh, You mean Peddicord.

B: Right, they've made me a great offer, more than double my present
salary.

A: Ah, I see. So the dilemma you're facing is whether to take it or not.

B: Yes that's it exactly. It would be a betrayal(背叛) of everyone I've
been working with for more than 10 years!It makes me sick to even think
about it. But I'm really tempted. It's a lot of money.

A: Look, I've known you since our student days. If you took that job,
you would be betraying yourself.

B: Yes, I know that. I wish they hadn't made me such an offer.

A: So why are you asking for my advice? If I were to say it's okay to
take the job, would that give you an excuse to take it? You are the one
who has to live with yourself.

B: Honestly, what would you do?

A: If I were in your situation, I'd probably feel the same way. And be
honest. I hope I would be able to stay true to myself. I suppose if my
family were really poor and in trouble, I'd be tempted. But even then,
to betray my friends and colleagues, who would I be? It's a real test of
character?

B: Yes. Those are my thoughts. And I'm not sure what my wife will think?

A: Look, I know your wife. I think she should be proud of you if you do
the right thing.

B: Yes, she probably will. And in the end, I'm not sure I could ever
trust Peddicord. They are a bunch of cutthroat(凶手残忍的). They have no
integrity(完整正直).

A: So, I think the answer is clear. And one more thing, I hope you do
the right thing even for me. We need people to stand up and do the right
thing. If you were to betray yourself, it will discourage everyone
knows. You have a lot of influence, and people

Reading

**What Happened to Character?**

Media and technologies are reprogramming the human brain, changing how
we think and live in significant ways. Nobody really knows how this will
affect the future, and few seem to care. The tendency is to let it
happen and go with the flow, despite warnings from some that all is not
well. Nobody can stop progress. Still, it's fun to reflect on changes to
see what might be lost.

Looking back to classic movies and comparing them with what we have
today, we see many similarities. However, there are major differences.
In particular, classic movies succeeded with few if any special effects.
The camera focused more on faces and expressions, like in the movies
Casablanca. Violent actions were seldom shown in gruesome detail but
were interred from the situation. Storylines focused on character and
personal dilemmas. Much was left to the imagination. And of course, sex
was hinted at, but never shown, expect in seedy theaters.

Some of the best movies took place in a single location, such as on a
lifeboat or in jury room. Would such movies draw an audience today?
Those movies depended on writers who could build drama into the
interactions between characters who had character. This required an
interest in human psychology. It also required audiences to have a
similar interest, who could empathize and be moved. Do those audiences
exist today?

Flash forward to the present. So many movies are filled with fast-moving
special effects, explicit violence, and lots of sex. We have become
voyeurs, addicted to getting thrills through the experiences of other.
Subtle emotions? Psychological dilemmas? Or just plain escape! Of
course, these have always been escape movies -- Bollywood movies with
stars dancing in the street. It's just the balance which has shifted.

Classical music and jazz played for more than a few minutes. People
concentrated and took time to enjoy and savor it. But now, immersed in
media, there is no time. Experiences are quick and shallow, measured by
the number of likes. We flee into the noise, perhaps to escape from
ourselves. What do you think? Or has it always been this way?

*-How would you characterize this piece of writing? --It's an
interesting commentary on technology and human behavior.*

*-How are today's experience described? --quick and shallow.*

*-To savor something means... -to enjoy it to the fullest.*

*-If something is gruesome to look at, it is... -awful to the point of
being sickening.*

*-What is an example of escape movies? -Of course, these have always
been escape movies -- Bollywood movies with stars dancing in the
street.*

*-Why does the author believe people don't have time? --But now,
immersed in media, there is no time.*

**Digital Intelligence**

The impact of technology is widespread and accelerating. Expects predict
that 90% of the world's population will connect to the Internet within
ten years or less. Evolving technology has become an unstoppable force,
reshaping our societies, ignoring national borders, and interconnecting
economies. There doesn't seem to be any way to control it. However, one
fact is certain: our kids are at the center of it.

Today's children are born into a digital world. They use technologies
and media from the time they begin to walk. Sometimes they have
difficulty distinguishing between the virtual and the real worlds. In
fact, children spend more time immersed in technology than they do with
people, including their parents. It is estimated that they spend an
average of 7 hours a day in front of some sort of digital device.

With the ever increasing amount and flow of information, digital
proficiency may be the next survival skill. Therefore it is essential
that children learn how to develop that skill without losing themselves
in the process. Guiding them is a challenge we need to face. First, we
need to realize that with so much exposure to content, there are both
opportunities and dangers. What and when is something appropriate for
children, and at what age? Who decides? Media is so pervasive and
accessible, yet there is no consensus about what is suitable. People
have different perspectives, not only about content, but also about how
to govern access. Governments must also decide what controls are
necessary. Policies must be put into place and standards set. Whatever
the decisions, the consequences will be enormous.

It seems naïve to sit back and ley children make their own decisions and
explore whatever captures their fancy. So technology has presented us
with a huge dilemma that will shape the future. Without a doubt, it's an
issue that parents and governments will need to address. Not only
children need to develop a digital intelligence, but so do each and
every one of us.

*-What is the author's major concern about the impact of technology?
--its potential effect on children.*

*-Why is it important for children to develop their digital proficiency?
--They need to be able to access and use digital information.*

*-In this context, to be exposed to something means to be... -in contact
with it.*

*-When there is consensus, there is... -general agreement.*

*-What fact is certain about the impact of technology? - However, one
fact is certain: our kids are at the center of it. -What do people need
to develop to know how to deal with digital technologies? -Not only
children need to develop a digital intelligence, but so do each and
every one of us.*



Listening

Rent or Buy

John and Linda have been arguing about whether to buy a house for a long
time. They have been renting a small flat for several years, and the
rent keeps going up. Last year John wasn't sure about his job situation,
so they agreed to delay the decision. They also invested some money in
the stock market, and their investments are doing well. Linda really
wants to have a place of her own. She is growing impatient and doesn't
want to wait any longer. She wants to sell some of their investments and
put the money into a nice house.

John is against buying now because he thinks prices are too high. He's
also worried about the high cost of living in the area. This is
beginning to make the area less attractive to companies. Unless the
company is innovative and successful can't afford to do business in the
area. Salary levels have risen so quickly that companies can no longer
afford to attract good workers. Good workers won't come unless they are
paid enough to buy a house. So many companies are relocating or moving
overseas we're cost or lower.

John is worried that once company start to leave housing prices will
come down. Only fools are buying now paying prices that are probably 10
to 20% higher than they should be. He wants to buy one prices have
fallen into more reasonable level. Until then it doesn't make sense to
buy.

He remembers what happen in other countries just a few years ago when
prices climbed and then sell 50%. Many people lost their homes because
they owed more on their homes and homes were worth. When they lost their
jobs they couldn't pay the mortgage. They couldn't sell either because
the selling price was less than what they owed to the bank. So they had
to move out and banks took possession. Now prices are rising again for
the same thing could happen again. A cycle of boom and bust which people
tend to forget.

Linda has a different view. She thinks he worries too much. She thinks
if they buy now prices will continue to rise. If they don't buy now they
will miss the opportunity and regret it later. She isn't worried by the
possibility that prices may drop in the future.

Another reason John is against buying a house is that he doesn't have
confidence in his new company. It is no longer growing as fast as it
used to. Though the management talks about a brand future he has doubts.
I see great things to keep everyone motivated but he doesn't trust them.
When he does a swot analysis of the company is even more concerned. SWOT
is an acronym for strengths weaknesses opportunities and threats. The
company strength is based on a technology that is very competitive. But
technology changes fast and what's good now will soon be out of date.
Continuous innovation is necessary.

The company is weakness is that it hasn't developed an alternative to
what it has now. Nobody is working on the next generation. They're
already signs that their technology is nearing the end of its life
cycle. There are still opportunities if the company is willing to hire
new people or acquire a company with new technology. The main threat is
that other companies are spending more in research and development.

So based on his analysis the company is OK for the next year two. But
beyond that it's future is questionable. As a result John doesn't want
to buy house now and take on a huge debt. Until he has more confidence
in his situation he doesn't want to take the risk.

His wife thinks he's too conservative. She has waited long enough and
she doesn't want to wait any longer. So John's dilemma is how to balance
his wife's happiness against the risk of losing a lot of money. One
thing for sure is that she isn't healthy as things stand now. She's been
waiting for a long time and he loves her. So the decision seems clear.
John knows exactly what to do. Maybe some flowers and a celebration?

Dialogue

Interviewer: Yes, I've enjoyed listening to you and learning more about
your background. Your experiences are impressive and it's obvious that
you do good work.

Employee: Thanks. What you try to do here interests me. I think there is
a lot of pentenional. As I said I'm ready to leave my present job if the
opportunity is attractive enough.

Interviewer: Great. As I'm sure you are aware and it won't be easy.
There's a lot of uncertainly. We need a strong committed team.

Employee: Sure, I understand.

*-What does he like about the company? --It's interesting and has
pertential.*

Interviewer: As for what we can offer you. First I want to stress again
that we are a startup. The people we have working here now are on
reduced salaries.

Employee: I understand. I'm willing to take less than what I being paid
now, but I have two children, so I've got to consider that too. All need
to at least cover our basic expenses?

*-Why are the people in the company working on reduced salaries? --It's
a startups, so the employees are also investors.*

*-What is the smallest salaries he's willing to accept? --He needs to
earn at least enough to pay for his family's basic living expenses.*

Interviewer: Okay, we have two ways we can do this. Both of them have
you starting at a reduced salary. One will give you a bonus after each
round of financing. With the other you can start with a higher salary
but the bonus will be smaller, or none at all.

Employee: What is time for the financing?

Interviewer: That depends on a lot of things. We are hoping to get the
next round of financing within six to nine months. We don't want to go
to our investors too early because you want to be in a strong position.
And for that we all need to perform. For now, we have enough cash to
cover us for about a year.

*-When does the company hope to get the next around financial? --They
are hoping to get it with 6 to 9 months.*

Employee: Okay, that make sense. Well, I'll talk to my wife and see what
she says.

Interviewer: Right. You need to cover your expenses but not enough to
have savings. The less you ask for now, the greater your bonus will move
forward. That's the idea. Employee: Got it. I'll get back to you
tomorrow.

*-Why should employees who accepts a lower salary get a large bonus
later? --They needed to be rewarded for taking a larger risk.*

Interviewer: Well, what do you think?

Director: He's impressive. I think he's someone who can strengthen our
team.

Interviewer: I think so too. If he can accept a low enough salary we
should hire him. That will show that he believes enough in our plan to
take on the risk.

Director: What if he ask for more than we can afford?

Interviewer: In that case, we can see if he'll consider working on a
short-term project first. That way he could keep his present job and we
could try to bring him in later. It will low his risk.

Director: I doubt if he will consider that, but it worth to try.

Interviewer: Yeah, let's hope it doesn't come to that. Whatever, we
should try to avoid losing him completely.

*-What advantage would he have by agree to work on a short term project?
--It would lower his risk.*

Director: Well, I'm optimistic. I think he'll decide to join us. He's
the kind of guy who likes a challenge. Interviewer: From what I could
tell, we certainly won't have to push him to get things done.

Director: Exactly. He'll feel the pressure just like the rest of us.
Hah.

*-Why are they optimistic? --They think he'll join them because he likes
a challenge.*

Reading

**Technology to Make Our Lives Better**

Paralyzed people can now control artificial limbs by thought alone. This
is possible because of the development of technologies which involve
connecting the brain to a computer or other electronic devices. One
well-known use of such technology enables deaf people to hear. The
device has several parts. One part is surgically implanted into the
inner ear. There it stimulates nerves to cause the sensation of sound.
The other part sits behind the ear and works like a miniature
microphone.

Another new device allows those who have lost an arm or a leg to control
their artificial limb just by thinking. The first human volunteer to try
this out was Matt Nagel. Matt was paralyzed from the neck down due to a
vicious knife attack.

The process of implanting the device into Matt was quite involved.
First, a circular piece of his skull was removed. Then a tiny plate with
hair-thin electrodes was inserted into his brain. It was placed in the
motor cortex, the brain region that controls movement. This plate
detects the electrical signals in the brain that usually control hand
movement. From the plate, thin cables were connected to a small computer
which decodes the signals from the plate and converts them into
commands. Hopefully, these commands would control the artificial hand
attached to Matt's arm.

Shortly after the operation, Matt was surrounded by the surgeons as he
stared at his artificial hand with hope. To the delight of the crowd,
the hand started moving, and the fingers closed, becoming a fist. At
that moment Matt made history. He became the first person to control an
artificial limb by using a device surgically inserted into his brain.

Since the operation, Nagel has continued to test the technology and
further investigate its capabilities. Using thought alone, he can now
perform a variety of tasks. He can control a TV and even open emails.
Such uses of technology are inspiring and bring joy to our hearts. It is
powerful evidence that technological advancements will improve our
lives.

*-What is the author's attitude toward technology? --inspired.*

*-What audiences is this piece primary intend for? --the general
public.*

*-What do technologies that transform live of people with disabilities
often use? --electronic devices.*

*-Where was the device that enable Matt to move his artificial hand
inserted? --his motor cortex.*

*-Something which is artificial is... -not natural.*

*-Within the context of the passage, decode means about the same as...
-to interpret the meaning.*

*-To convert into means about the same as to... -change into.*

*-When something emerges, it... -appears.*

*-What can technology enable paralyzed people to do? --Paralyzed people
can now control artificial limbs by thought alone.*

*-Go in forward, what would be the role of technological advancements in
our lives? --It is powerful evidence that technological advancements
will improve our lives.*

*-How does the device that enables deaf people to hear work? -This is
possible because of the development of technologies which involve
connecting the brain to a computer or other electronic devices.*

*-To what do the scientists connect Matt's brain? -From the plate, thin
cables were connected to a small computer which decodes the signals from
the plate and converts them into commands.*

**Investors Beware!**

When people talk about investing, they are always looking for the best
advice. Many are willing to pay a lot for it. The problem with this,
however, is that many financial advisors give the wrong advice.

Ultimately, decisions must be made by the investor. Here are some
guidelines that may help investors save a lot of money. First, a key to
successful investing is time itself. What makes many investors rich is
that they have invested over a long time. This allows their investments
to grow, even if they weren't active investors. Unfortunately, most
people don't start saving enough until it's too late. That lack of time
limits the power of compounding. So the best advice is to start saving
as soon as possible.

What about economic projections and earnings growth estimates? The truth
is, nobody knows. What they really reflect are people's feelings about
the future. It's interesting to note that someone who buys a low-cost
index fund on average does better than someone who invests in an
expensive fund managed by famous experts. With investing, simple and
basic can earn a bigger return than complex and expensive. Sometimes the
pros don't know what they are talking about. They just talk as if they
do.

What about risk and volatility? One thing for sure is that the stock
market will fluctuate. Since 1900 one of the largest index funds has
returned about 6% per year. Compare that to the average difference
between any year's highest close and lowest close which is 23%. When an
expert tries to explain why the market is down, they are really trying
to explain why the sun goes up and down.

And finally, beware! The financial industry is dominated by people whose
only interest in your wealth is how much they can charge you.
Unfortunately, the louder a financial experts is, the more exposure he
will get even though he's often wrong. This is one of the most important
things to know about finance. Don't be misled by experts.

*-The style of this article is... -friendly and accessible.*

*-What does the article warn investors about? --Being misled by
experts.*

*-Why should investors beware of many financial advisors? --Many
financial advisors are only interested in charging fees.*

*-What is needed to take advantage of the power of compounding?
--Sufficient time.*

*-If something is volatile, it... -changes rapidly and unpredictably.*

*-If something fluctuates, its value... -rises and falls in an irregular
manner.*

*-An index fund is a type of investment... -that invests in all of the
companies in a market index such as the S&P 500, which includes 500
companies.*

*-In investing, the market close refers to... -the value of the stock
market at the end of the trading day.*

*-Why is it important to start saving early? -That lack of time limits
the power of compounding.*

*-What kind of people dominate the finally industry? -The financial
industry is dominated by people whose only interest in your wealth is
how much they can charge you.*
