# LEVEL 1

## Unit 1

**Part 1**

**Listening**

This is Dan. Dan is a man. This is Tina. Tina is a woman. Who is a man?
Dan is a man.

This is Ben. Ben is a boy. This is Lisa. Lisa is a girl. Who is a girl?
Lisa is a girl.

This is Dan. This is Ben. Dan is a man and Ben is a boy. Who is a man?
Dan is a man.

This is Tina. This is Lisa. Tina is a woman and Lisa is a girl. Who is a
woman? Lisa is a woman.

Here are three people. This person is a man. This person is a woman.
This person is a man. Which person is a woman? This person is a woman,
her name is Tina. Which person is a boy? This person is a boy, his name
is Ben. Is this person a woman? This person isn't a woman.

**Vocabulary**

A door .This is a door. A window .This is a window. A chair .This is a
chair. Stairs .These are stairs. A key .This is a key.

A book .This is a book. A desk .This is a desk. A pencil .This is a
pencil. A cell phone .This is a cell phone. A pen .This is a pen.

Sit down. Stand up. Close the door. Open the door. Pick up the keys. Put
down the keys.

**Dialogue**

Here are two people, a man and a woman.

M: hello, my name is Dan, what is your name?

W: Hello, Dan, my name is Tina.

M: Your name is Tina?

W: Yes, that's right. My name is Tina.

W: And your name is Dan, right?

M: Yes, that's right. My name is Dan.

W: It's nice to meet you, Dan.

M: It's nice to meet you, Tina.

Here are two people, a boy and a girl.

M: Hi, my name is Ben. What's your name?

W: Hi, Ben, my name is Lisa.

M: Lisa?

W: Yes, Lisa, L-i-s-a.

**Letters & Numbers**

A

An apple An arm Africa Asia An ant

B

A book A banana A bird A boy A bank

C

A city A clock A car A circle Cold

D

A desk A day A door Down A dress

E

An ear East Egypt An elevator Eleven

One Two Three Four Five Six Seven Eight Nine Ten

## Unit 1

**Part 2**

**Listening**

This is Dan. Hello, my name is Dan. Dan is a man. This is Tina. Hi, my
name is Tina. Tina is a woman.

This is Ben. Hi, my name is Ben. Ben is a boy. This is Lisa. Hello, my
name is Lisa. Lisa is a girl.

This is Dan. This is Ben. Dan is a man and Ben is a boy.

This is Tina. This is Lisa. Tina is a woman and Lisa is a girl.

This man's name is Dan. Dan, D-a-n. This woman' name is Tina. Tina,
T-i-n-a. This boy's name is Ben. Ben, B-e-n. This girl's name is Lisa.
Lisa, L-i-s-a. Here are three people. Here are three countries, France,
Japan and Canada.

**Vocabulary**

This is a door. This is a chair. This is a key. This is a desk. This is
a cell phone. This is a windows. These are stairs. This is a book. This
is a pencil. This is a pen.

A bathroom. This is a bathroom. An elevator. This is an elevator. A
clock. This is a clock. A watch. This is a watch. A hand. This is a
hand. A bathroom. B-a-t-h-r-o-o-m. An elevator. E-l-e-v-a-t-o-r. A
clock. C-l-o-c-k. A watch. W-a-t-c-h. A hand. H-a-n-d.

Sit down. Stand up. Close the door. Open the door. Pick up the keys. Put
down the keys. Go up the stairs. Go down the stairs. Put up your hand.
Put down your hand. Open the book. Close the book.

**Dialogue**

Here are two people, a man and a woman.

M: Hello, my name is Dan. What is your name?

W: Hello, Dan, my name is Tina.

M: Tina?

W: Yes, my name is Tina.

W: And your name is Dan, right?

M: Yes, my name is Dan, D-a-n.

W: It's nice to meet you, Dan.

M: It's nice to meet you, Tina. Listen carefully, it is, it's.

W: Who is that? What is his name? M: His name is Ken.

W: Ken?

M: Yes, his name is Ken, K-e-n.

M: Who is that?

W: Her name is Kim.

M: Tina, this is Ken. Ken, this is Tina.

Ken: Hi, Tina, it's nice to meet you.

W: Dan, this is Kim. Kim, this is Dan. Kim: Hi, Dan, it's nice to meet
you.

M: Hi Kim, it's nice to meet you too.

**Letters & Numbers**

F

A family Fingers Fifteen France February

G

A girl A game Germany Green Goat

H

A hand Hands Hair A house Happy

I

Ice Ink India Ireland Italy

J

Japan Jeans Juice June July

numbers

Eleven Twelve Thirteen Fourteen Fifteen

Sixteen Seventeen Eighteen Nineteen Twenty

**Part 3**

**Listening**

This is Dan. Hello, my name is Dan. Dan is a man. He comes from the US.

This is Tina. Hi, my name is Tina. Tina is a woman. She comes from
China.

This is Ben. Hello, my name is Ben. Ben is a boy. He comes from Canada.

This is Lisa. Lisa is a girl. She comes from the US. Dan comes from the
US. Tina comes from Chins. They come from different countries. They
don't come from the same country. Ben comes from Canada and Lisa comes
from the US. They come from different countries. Dan and Lisa come from
the US. They come from the same country.

Here are three people, two man and a woman. They are adults. They are
not children. Here are three people, two girls and a boy. They are
children. They are not adults.

**Vocabulary**

This is a chair. People sit on chairs. This is a door. People open and
close doors. This is a window.

This window is open. This is a window. This window is closed. Two books.
People read books.

Three pencils. People write with pencils.

A bathroom. An elevator. A clock. A watch. A hand.

Two hands. Here are two hands. A foot. This is a foot. Two feet. Here
are two feet.

An arm. This is an arm. A leg. This is a leg.

Sit down. Stand up. Close the door. Open the door. Pick up the keys. Put
down the keys.

**Dialogue**

Dan: Hi, my name is Dan, I come from the US, where do you come from?
Tina: Hi, my name is Tina, I come from China.

Dan: Who is that?

Tina: That's Kim.

Dan: Where does she come from?

Tina: She comes from Korea.

Kim: Hi, my name is Kim. I come from Korea. Do you both come from the
US?

Tina: No, we don't. We come from different countries. I come from China
and he comes from the US.

W: What is your name?

Ben: What is my name? My name is Ben.

W: Do you come from the US?

Ben: Do I come from the US? No, I don't. I don't come from the US.

W: Where do you come from?

Ben: Where I you come from? I come from Canada.

**Letters & Numbers**

K

Keys Kids A kitchen Korea A kitten

L

Left A leg London A leaf A lock

M

The Moon Mexico Music March May

N

Night A nose North November Notebooks

O

An ocean On Off Open October

Ten Twenty Twenty-two Thirty Thirty-six Forty Forty-one Fifty
Fifty-seven

P

A pencil Paper Paris Pull Push

Q

A question Quiz A queen Quiet A queue

**Part 4**

**Listening**

This is Dan. Hello, my name is Dan. Dan is a man. I come from the US.
This is Tina. Hi, my name is Tina. Tina is a woman. I come from China.

*Her name is Tina. She comes from China.*

This is Ben. Ben is from Canada. He isn't from the US. This is Lisa. She
comes from the US. She and Dan are from the US. They come from the same
country.

*She is from China.*

*The boy's name is Ben.*

Here are three cities. This city is San Francisco. This city is Beijing.
This city is London. San Francisco is in the US. Beijing is in China.
London is in England.

*China is a country.*

Tina is from China. She lives in Beijing. Ben is from Canada. He lives
in Toronto.

**Vocabulary**

Go in to the bathroom. Come out of the bathroom. Go in to the elevator.
Come out of the elevator. Wait for the elevator.

*She's going in to the elevator. She's coming out of the elevator. He's
going in to the bathroom.*

Here are two hands. This is a foot. Here are two feet. This is an arm.
This is a leg.

*Here is a leg.*

Go up the stairs. Go down the stairs. Put up your hand. Put down your
hand. Open the book.

Close the book. Turn left. Turn right. Go straight. Stop. Turn around.
Sunny weather. Rainy weather. Cloudy weather. Cold weather. Hot weather.

*It's cloudy. It's hot. It's raining.*

**Dialogue**

Dan: Hi, Tina, how are you today?

Tina: I'm fine, thanks. How are you?

Dan: I'm fine. It's nice to see you. Listen carefully, I am = I'm.

Dan: Hello, is this Tina?

Tina: Hi, yes, this is Tina, who is this? Dan: It's Dan.

Tina: Oh, hi Dan, how are you today?

Dan: I'm fine. Thanks. How are you?

Tina: I'm fine.

Tina: Hi, Dan, how is the weather there?

Dan: It's fine. It's sunny and warm.

Tina: Good, the weather is good here too.

Ben: How is the weather today?

Lisa: It's raining.

Ben: Really? It's sunny here.

Lisa: Well, have a good day.

Ben: Thanks, you too.

Listen carefully, how is or how's.

Listen carefully, it is or it's.

Dan: Who is she?

Tina: That's Kim.

Dan: Where is she from?

Tina: She's from Korea.

Dan: Does she live there?

Tina: Yes, she does. She lives in Seoul.

Dan: Hi, my name is Dan. I'm from the US. Where are you from?

Tina: Hi, my name is Tina. I'm from China.

Dan: Where do you live?

Tina: I live in Beijing. How about you? Dan: I live in San Francisco.

**Letters & Numbers**

Sixty Sixty-eight Seventy Seventy-four Eighty Eighty-nine Ninety
Ninety-three One hundred

R

Right Red Russia Read A ruler

S

The Sun Sad South Sydney Six

T

A taxi A tomato Toes A teacher Ten

U

Under Unhappy An umbrella Uniforms The United States

V

Vegetables A violin Vietnam Volleyball Venice

W

Water A woman A watch A window West

X

A box Exit An X-ray A fox Toxic

Y

Yellow A year Yesterday Yes Toy

Z

Zero A zoo A zipper Jazz Zebra

**Part 5**

**Listening**

This is Dan. He comes from the US. He is American. He's American. He is,
he's. This is Tina. She is from China. She's from China. She is, she's.
She's Chinese. This is Ben. Ben comes from Canada. He doesn't come from
the US. He is Canadian. This is Lisa. Lisa comes from the US. She and
Dan come from the US. They are Americans. They don't come from China.
Lisa comes from the US, but she lives in China. She doesn't live in the
US. She lives in Shanghai. Shanghai is a city in China. Ben is from
Canada and he lives in Canada. He lives in Toronto. Toronto is a city in
Canada.

Here are three people, two men and a woman. There are two men. There is
one woman. Here are four countries, France, Italy, Japan and India.
France and Italy are in Europe. They are European countries. Japan and
India are in Asia. They are Asian countries. China is also an Asian
country.

**Vocabulary**

A circle A line A box A bag A triangle A circle C-i-r-c-le A line
L-i-n-e

A box B-o-x A bag B-a-g A triangle T-r-i-a-n-g-l-e

Go in to the bathroom Come out of the bathroom Go in to the elevator

Come out of the elevator Wait for the elevator

Spanish Spanish is the language of Spain.

Chinese People speak Chinese in china.

Japanese In Japan, people speak Japanese.

English People in Australia speak English.

French France is the language of France.

Turn left Turn right Go straight Stop Turn around

Sunny weather Rainy weather Cloudy weather Cold weather Hot weather

**Dialogue**

Dan: Good morning, Tina. How are you today?

Tina: I'm fine. Thanks. How about you?

Dan: I'm fine. It's my birthday today.

Tina: Really? Well, happy birthday, Dan.

Dan: Thanks, Tina.

Tina: Oh, how old are you, Dan?

Dan: I'm 34 years old today.

Tina: Have a great day.

Dan: You too, Tina. Goodbye.

Tina: Bye-bye.

Hello, my name is Ben.

I'm from Canada.

I live in Toronto.

I'm 12 years old.

I speak two languages, English and French.

It's nice to meet you.

W: Excuse me, may I ask you some questions? Ben: Sure.

W: Thanks. Question number one, what's your name?

Ben: What is my name? My name is Ben.

W: Question number two: where are you from?

Ben: Where am I from? I'm from Canada.

W: Question number three: how old are you?

Ben: How old am I? I'm 12 years old.

W: Question number four, the last question: what languages do you speak?

Ben: What languages do I speak? I speak English and France.

W: Thank you.

Ben: You are welcome.

Kim: Hi, my name is Kim. I come from Korea. Do you both come from the
US?

Tina: No, we don't. We come from different countries. I come from China
and he comes from the US. *They come from different countries.*

**Letters & Numbers**

An apple A banana A circle A dress East A family Germany

A house Ice June A kitchen London The Moon

Notebooks An ocean A pencil Quiet Read Six A tomato

The United Stated Volleyball Water A fox A year A zipper

Five Six Seven Ten Twelve Thirteen Eighteen Twenty

Twenty-two Thirty Thirty-six Forty Forty-one Fifty Fifty-seven

Forty-one Forty-three Forty-four Forty-six

Fifty Fifty-seven Sixty Sixty-eight Seventy Seventy-four Eighty

Eighty-nine Ninety Ninety-three

## Unit 2

**Part 1**

**Listening**

Here are two people. The person on the left is a man. His name is Dan.
The person on the right is a woman. Her name is Tina.

*The person on the right is Tina.*

*The person on the left is Dan.*

Here are two countries. The country on the left is India. India is an
Asian country. The country on the right is Brazil. Brazil is in South
America. It isn't an Asian country.

Here are three cities, Beijing, Shanghai and Tokyo. Beijing and Shanghai
are both in China. Tokyo is in Japan. Beijing and Shanghai are in the
same country, China. Tokyo is in a different country from Shanghai.

This boy's name is Ben Harris. His first name is Ben. His last name is
Harris. Ben is from Canada. He's 12 years old.

This girl's name is Lisa Jackson. Her first name is Lisa. Her last name
is Jackson. Lisa is from the US. She's 12 years old.

Ben and Lisa come from different countries. She is from the US and he is
from Canada. They are both 12 years old. They are the same age.

*The person on the left is Ben.*

**Vocabulary**

An open door. This door is open. A closed door. This door is closed. An
open window. This window is open. A closed window. This window is
closed. A long pencil. This pencil is long. A short pencil. This pencil
is short.

A red book. This book is red. A green book. This book is green. A big
chair. This chair is big. A little chair. This chair is little. A tall
man. This man is tall. A short man. This man is short.

An open door. O-p-e-n. A closed door. C-l-o-s-e-d. A long pencil.
L-o-n-g. A short pencil. S-h-o-r-t.

A red book. R-e-d. A green book. G-r-e-e-n. A big chair. B-i-g. A little
chair. L-i-t-t-l-e. A tall man. T-a-l-l. A short man. S-h-o-r-t.

Read a book. Write your name. Study science. Stand in a line. Sit in a
circle. Ask a question.

**Dialogue**

Dan: Good afternoon, Tina.

Tina: Good afternoon, Dan.

Dan: Do you know that man over there?

Tina: No, I don't. I don't know who he is. Do you know?

Dan: No, I don't know either.

Dan: Hi, I'm Dan.

Albert: Hi, I'm Albert Gomez. It's nice to meet you.

Dan: Where are you from, Albert?

Albert: I'm from Mexico but I live in Turkey.

Dan: Turkey? Where do you live in Turkey?

Albert: I live in Istanbul.

Dan: Istanbul. It is a beautiful city.

Albert: Yes, it is. I like living there.

W: Excuse me, may I ask you some questions?

Lisa: Sure.

W: Thanks, what's your name?

Lisa: My name is Lisa Jackson.

W: How do you spell your name?

Lisa: My first name is Lisa, L-i-s-a. My last name is Jackson,
J-a-c-k-s-o-n.

W: How old are you, Lisa?

Lisa: I'm 12 years old.

W: Where are you from? Lisa: I come from the US.

W: Do you live in the US.

Lisa: No, I don't. I live in China.

W: Really? Where do you live in China?

Lisa: I live in Shanghai.

W: Are you a student there? Lisa: Yes, I'm a student.

W: Can you speak Chinese?

Lisa: Yes, I can speak Chinese.

W: That's great. Thank you, Lisa.

**Letters & Numbers**

One o'clock. Three o'clock. Five o'clock. Eight o'clock. Eleven o'clock.
Five minutes. Fifty minutes. Thirty minutes. Forty-five minutes. One
hour.

B

A ball A boy A book

P

Paper Push A pond

D

A door Put down A duck

T

Turn A table A taxi

V

Venice A violin A volleyball

L

Turn left A line A lamp

R

A red book A restaurant Turn right

M

A mouth A map A mouse

N

A nose North Nine

S

South The Sun A salad

**Part 2**

**Listening**

This is Ben Harris. This is his family. These are his parents. This is
his father. His father's name is Paul. This is his mother. His mother's
name is Kathy. Their family name is Harris. This is Ben's brother. His
name is Jeff. He is 15 years old. This is Ben's sister. Her name is
Maggie. She is 8 years old.

Here are Ben's grandparents. They are his mother's parents. This is his
grandfather. His grandfather is 65 years old. This is his grandmother.
His grandmother is 62 years old. His other grandparents are dead. They
died in a car accident. Ben and his family live in Toronto. They live in
a house. His grandparents don't live with them. They live in an
apartment.

**Vocabulary**

It's morning. Good morning. It's afternoon. Good afternoon. It's
evening. Good evening. It's night. Good night. It's daytime. The sun is
up. It's nighttime. The sun is down.

Eyes. We see with our eyes. Ears. We hear with our ears.

A nose. We spell with our nose. A mouth. We eat with our mouth.

Hands. We touch things with our hands.

It's morning. M-o-r-n-i-n-g. It's afternoon. A-f-t-e-r-n-o-o-n. It's
evening. E-v-e-n-i-n-g. It's night. N-i-g-h-t.

Draw a line. Turn on the light. Turn off the light. Draw a map. Take out
your phone.

Put away your phone.

**Dialogue**

Lisa: Hello, Ben.

Ben: Hi, Lisa.

Lisa: I have some questions for you.

Ben: Sure. What are they about?

Lisa: They are about your family.

Ben: Right.

Lisa: Your family live in Toronto, right?

Ben: Yes, we live in Toronto.

Lisa: How many people are there in your family?

Ben: There are five people in my family.

Lisa: Do you have any brothers or sisters?

Ben: Yes, I do. I have one brother and one sister.

Lisa: So, your parents have three children, right?

Ben: Right. Two boys plus one girl equals three children.

Lisa: Your math is good, Ben.

Lisa: And here is the last question, do you live in a house or an
apartment?

Ben: We live in a house.

Lisa: Thanks, Ben.

Ben: You are welcome.

Ben: Hi, Lisa.

Lisa: Yes?

Ben: Can I have your phone number?

Lisa: Sure. 18601637478. What's yours?

Ben: My number is 4089057771.

Lisa: You can send me a message. Ben: Great.

**Letters & Numbers**

One fifteen. Eleven twenty. Five past seven. Ten past eight. Nine
fifty-five.

Ten minutes to ten. Twenty minutes after seven. Twenty-five minutes to
three.

Eight o five. Eleven twenty-five.

One half. One third. One fifth. Three fifths. Three quarters. Seven
tenths.

One and a half. Five and two thirds. Eight and four fifths. Seven and
one third.

**Part 3**

**Listening**

This is Lisa Jackson. This is her family. These are her parents. This is
her father. Her father's name is Bill. Bill is white. This is her
mother. Her mother's name is Helen. Helen is black. Their family name is
Jackson. Lisa has a sister, but no brother. Her sister's name is Angela.
Angela is 9 years old.

*She doesn't have any brothers.*

Here are Lisa's grandparents. They are her father's parents. This is her
grandfather. Her grandfather is 70 years old. This is her grandmother.
Her grandmother is 65 years old. Her other grandparents live in France.
They are both 72 years old. Lisa and her family live in Shanghai. They
live in an apartment in Shanghai. Their apartment is on the fifth (5th)
floor. Her parents are teachers. Her father teaches English to adults.
Her mother teaches English to children.

Lisa and her sister are students. They go to school. Lisa is in the
7^th^ grade. Angela is in the 4^th^ grade.

**Vocabulary**

It's sunny weather. It's raining. It's cloudy today. It's hot. It's
cold. Walk to the door. Wait for the elevator. Run to the bus. Ride a
bicycle. Throw a ball. Catch a ball.

Students. Students study. Teachers. A teacher teaches.

A school. Teachers teach in schools. A classroom Students study in
classroom at school. A coach. Coaches teach sports.

**Dialogue**

Tom is a boy. He and Lisa go to the same school. They are friends.

Tom: Hi, Lisa.

Lisa: Hi, Tom, how are you today?

Tom: I'm fine. I really like this weather.

Lisa: Yes, it's nice weather. I like sunny weather.

Tom: As you too.

Tom: So today, I have some questions for you, OK?

Lisa: Sure.

Tom: First, could you tell me about your family?

Lisa: OK. There are four people in my family, my parents, me and my
sister.

Tom: You don't have any brothers?

Lisa: Right, I don't have any brothers.

Tom: What do your parents do?

Lisa: My parents are both teachers.

Tom: What do they teach?

Lisa: They both teach English.

Tom: How old is your sister?

Lisa: My sister is 9 years old.

Tom: How old are you?

Lisa: I'm 12, what about you?

Tom: I'm12, the same age of you.

Lisa: Yes, we are the same age, but we come from different countries.
You come from Australia, and I come from the US.

Tom: Yes, so we both speak English.

Lisa: How about your Chinese?

Tom: It's OK, but not good. How's yours?

Lisa: It's good.

Tom: Hey, what time is it?

Lisa: It's four o'clock.

Tom: It's time to go home.

Lisa: Me too, see you tomorrow. Tom: See ya.

**Letters & Numbers**

Ch

A chair A bench A teacher

Sh

A shirt Push Shoes

Th

A mouth A thumb A tooth

Bl

Blue Black

Br

Brown A brain

Cl

A cloud A clock

Dr

A dress Drink

Cr

A crosswalk A crow

Eight plus five = 8 + 5 Nine and five = 9 + 5 Eight minus five = 8 - 5
Eight times five = 8 \* 5

Eight divided by five = 8 / 5 One half times three =1/2 \* 3 Divided two
by four =2/ 4

Two third of nine = 2/3 \* 9 Eight and a half minus two = 8 + 1/2 -2

Eight and a half plus two = 8 + 1/2 + 2

**Part 4**

**Listening**

Here are four cities. Beijing is in China. London is in England. Tokyo
is in Japan. Paris is in France. Beijing and Tokyo are both in Asia.
London and Paris are both in Europe. In France people speak French. In
China people speak Chinese. In Japan people speak Japanese.

This is Europe. There are many countries in Europe. France, Italy and
Germany are all in Europe. People in these countries speak different
languages. They don't speak the same language. The French speak French.
The Italians speak Italian. The Germans speak German. There are many
different languages. In Europe and Asia, many students study English.
English is their second language. Many people can speak two languages.
Right now you are studying English.

This is North America. There are three countries in North America.
Canada, the US and Mexico are all in North America. Canada is north of
the US. The US is south of Canada. Mexico is south of the US. In Mexico
people speak Spanish. In Canada and the US people speak English.

**Vocabulary**

A school. Students study at school. An apartment building. An apartment
building has many apartments. A house. Some people live in big houses. A
sidewalk. People walk on a sidewalk. A street. People drive cars on a
street.

A red book. This book is red. A green book. This book is green. A big
chair. This is a big chair. A little chair. This chair is little. A tall
man. This man is tall and thin. A short man. This man is short and
heavy.

It's morning. People get up in the morning. It's afternoon. People eat
lunch in the afternoon. It's evening. People eat dinner in the evening.
It's night. People sleep at night. It's daytime. It's nighttime. It's
dark at night.

**Dialogue**

Tina: Hi Dan.

Dan: Hi Tina.

Tina: Here are some questions for you.

Dan: Sure, go ahead.

Tina: First, where are you from?

Dan: I am from the US. I live in San Francisco. Tina: Do you have a
family?

Dan: Yes, I do. I have a wife and two children.

Tina: What's your wife's name?

Dan: My wife's name is Sally. She's Chinese.

Tina: She's Chinese?

Dan: Yes, she's from Beijing.

Tina: What about your children?

Dan: I have a boy, Harry, and a girl, Lily.

Tina: How old are they?

Dan: Harry is 7 and Lily is 5.

Tina: What do you do?

Dan: What do I do?

Tina: Yes, what's your job?

Dan: I'm a pilot. I fly airplanes.

Tina: That's interesting.

Dan: Yes, it is. I like my job.

Tina: What languages do you speak?

Dan: I can speak several languages.

Tina: What are they?

Dan: I can speak French, Spanish, and a little Chinese.

Tina: That's great. Thanks, Dan.

Dan: You are welcome.

Hi, I'm Dan.

I live in San Francisco.

I live there with my family.

I have a wife and two children.

I can speak several languages. It's nice to meet to you.

**Letters & Numbers**

A book A pond Put down A table A violin

A lamp A restaurant A mouse North A salad

One o'clock Three o'clock Five minutes Fifteen minutes One fifteen

Twenty minutes after seven One half One third One and a half Five and
two thirds

Nine and five Eight minus five One half times three

Divide two by four *Two thirds of nine = 9 \* 2/3*

**Part 5**

**Listening**

This is Lisa Jackson. Her full name is Lisa Marie Jackson. Lisa is her
first name. Her middle name is Marie. Her last name is Jackson. Lisa's
mother comes from France. She can speak two languages, English and
French. And now she's studying Chinese. Lisa's father comes from the US.
He can speak English and a little Spanish. And now he's studying
Chinese. Lisa and her sister go to the same school. In school they speak
Chinese. Their Chinese are very good. At home they speak English. Their
parent's Chinese isn't very good. They study many subjects in school.
They study science and math. They study English and Chinese. They study
other subjects too.

Angela is good at math and science. She's also good at sports. She can
run very fast. She can jump rope. She isn't good at art. Her drawings
aren't very good. Lisa likes languages and books. She also likes music.
She loves music. She can play the violin a little. She doesn't like
math. Angela can't play the violin. She can't play the piano. But she
can sing. She can sing very well. She and Lisa are both good singers.
They like to sing.

**Vocabulary**

It's windy today. The wind is blowing. It's raining. It is raining, so
take an umbrella. It's cloudy weather. It's cloudy, so we can't see the
Sun. It's cold today. It's cold so wear a coat. Smog. It's smoggy, so
wear a mask.

A black coat. This coat is black. A yellow umbrella. This umbrella is
yellow.

A blue scarf. This is a blue scarf. A brown hat. This hat is brown.

Black gloves. These gloves are black.

Sitting on a bench.

She is sitting on a bench.

Standing in an elevator.

He is standing in an elevator.

Pushing the door open.

She is pushing the door open.

Pulling the door open.

She is pulling the door open.

Sitting at a table.

He is sitting at a table.

**Dialogue**

Tom: Good morning, Lisa.

Lisa: Hi, Tom.

Tom: What's your first class?

Lisa: My first class is math, what's yours?

Tom: My first class is science.

Lisa: What's your second class?

Tom: My second class is English.

Lisa: Do you like your English teacher?

Tom: Yeah, she's a good teacher. You have English class too, right?

Lisa: Yes, I have English class.

Tom: When is your English class?

Lisa: It's in the afternoon, at 1 o'clock.

Tom: I have math class at the same time.

Lisa: OK. Right after lunch.

Lisa: What's your last class?

Tom: My last class is Chinese.

Lisa: Me too.

Tom: So we are in the same class.

Lisa: Great.

Tom: OK, see you in class.

Dan: Do you know that man?

Tina: No, I don't know who he is.

Dan: Don't you?

Tina: No, I don't, do you?

Dan: Yes, I do.

Dan: That's Albert Gamer.

Tina: Who is Alert Go?

Dan: He is a singer. He's from Mexico, but he lives in Turkey.

Tina: Oh, that's interesting. Is he a good singer?

Dan: Yes, I think so.

Tina: OK. Bye for now.

**Letters & Numbers**

A bench A shirt A thumb Black Brown A cloud A dress A crosswalk

Eight o'clock Eleven o'clock Forty-five minutes One hour Ten past eight

Twenty-five minutes to three Three fifths Three quarter Eight and four
fifths

Seven and one third Eight times five Eight divided by five

Eight and a half minus two

Eight and a half plus two
