# LEVEL 7

## Unit 3

**PART 1**

What does it mean to be a citizen of the world？

成为一个世界公民意味着什么？

by Hugh Evans

I want to introduce you to an amazing woman. Her name is Davinia.
Davinia was born in Jamaica, emigrated to the US at the age of 18, and
now lives just outside of Washington, DC. She\'s not a high-powered
political staffer, nor a lobbyist. She\'d probably tell you she\'s quite
unremarkable, but she\'s having the most remarkable impact. What\'s
incredible about Davinia is that she\'s willing to spend time every
single week focused on people who are not her: people not her in her
neighborhood, her state, nor even in her country \-- people she\'d
likely never meet.

我想把你介绍给一个了不起的女人。她的名字叫Davinia。达文尼出生在牙买加，18岁时移居美国，现在住在华盛顿特区外。她不是一个精力充沛的政治工作人员，也不是一个说客。她可能会告诉你，她很不起眼，但她有着最显著的影响。令人难以置信的是，她愿意花每一个星期的时间来关注那些不是她的人：在她的邻居，她的州，甚至在她的国家里，她可能永远不会遇到的人。

Davinia\'s impact started a few years ago when she reached out to all of
her friends on Facebook, and asked them to donate their pennies so she
could fund girls\' education. She wasn\'t expecting a huge response, but
700,000 pennies later, she\'s now sent over 120 girls to school. When we
spoke last week, she told me she\'s become a little infamous at the
local bank every time she rocks up with a shopping cart full of pennies.

达维尼亚的影响始于几年前，当时她向所有在Facebook上的朋友伸出援手，并要求他们捐出自己的钱，这样她就可以资助女孩的教育。她没想到会有一个巨大的反应，但70万便士之后，她现在送了120多个女孩上学。当我们上个星期说，她告诉我，她在当地银行变得有点声名狼藉，每次她用一个装满硬币的购物车摇晃起来。

Now \-- Davinia is not alone. Far from it. She\'s part of a growing
movement. And there\'s a name for people like Davinia: global citizens.
A global citizen is someone who self-identifies first and foremost not
as a member of a state, a tribe or a nation, but as a member of the
human race, and someone who is prepared to act on that belief, to tackle
our world\'s greatest challenges. Our work is focused on finding,
supporting and activating global citizens. They exist in every country
and among every demographic.

现在，达文尼并不孤单。离它很远。她是成长运动的一部分。还有一个名字叫达文尼亚：全球公民。一个全球公民是一个自我认同的人，首先不是作为一个国家、一个部落或一个国家的成员，而是作为人类的一员，还有一个准备采取行动的人，来应对我们这个世界上最大的挑战。我们的工作重点是寻找、支持和激活全球公民。它们存在于每个国家和每个人口中。

I want to make the case to you today that the world\'s future depends on
global citizens. I\'m convinced that if we had more global citizens
active in our world, then every single one of the major challenges we
face \-- from poverty, climate change, gender inequality \-- these
issues become solvable. They are ultimately global issues, and they can
ultimately only be solved by global citizens demanding global solutions
from their leaders.

今天我要向你们说明，世界的未来取决于全球公民。我相信，如果我们有更多的全球公民活跃在我们的世界，那么我们面临的每一个重大挑战------从贫穷、气候变化、性别不平等------这些问题都可以解决。它们最终是全球性问题，最终只能由全球公民来解决，要求他们的领导人提供全球性解决方案。

Now, some people\'s immediate reaction to this idea is that it\'s either
a bit utopian or even threatening. So I\'d like to share with you a
little of my story today, how I ended up here, how it connects with
Davinia and, hopefully, with you.

现在，一些人对这个想法的直接反应是，它要么有点乌托邦，甚至是有威胁的。所以今天我想和大家分享一点我的故事，我是如何在这里结束的，它是如何与达文尼联系在一起的，希望和你在一起。

Growing up in Melbourne, Australia, I was one of those seriously
irritating little kids that never, ever stopped asking, \"Why?\" You
might have been one yourself. I used to ask my mum the most annoying
questions. I\'d ask her questions like, \"Mum, why I can\'t I dress up
and play with puppets all day?\" \"Why do you want fries with that?\"
\"What is a shrimp, and why do we have to keep throwing them on the
barbie?\"

在澳大利亚的墨尔本长大，我是一个非常惹人讨厌的孩子，从来没有停止过问"为什么？"你可能就是你自己。我过去常常问我妈妈最烦人的问题。我会问她这样的问题："妈妈，为什么我不能整天打扮和玩弄木偶？""你为什么要炸薯条？""什么是虾，为什么我们要一直把它们扔到芭比娃娃上？"

(Laughter)

（笑声）

\"And mum \-- this haircut. Why?\"

"还有妈妈------这个发型。为什么？"

(Laughter)

（笑声）

The worst haircut, I think. Still terrible.

我想是最糟糕的发型。还是很糟糕。

As a \"why\" kid, I thought I could change the world, and it was
impossible to convince me otherwise. And when I was 12 and in my first
year of high school, I started raising money for communities in the
developing world. We were a really enthusiastic group of kids, and we
raised more money than any other school in Australia. And so I was
awarded the chance to go to the Philippines to learn more. It was 1998.
We were taken into a slum in the outskirts of Manila. It was there I
became friends with Sonny Boy, who lived on what was literally a pile of
steaming garbage. \"Smoky Mountain\" was what they called it. But don\'t
let the romance of that name fool you, because it was nothing more than
a rancid landfill that kids like Sonny Boy spent hours rummaging through
every single day to find something, anything of value.

作为一个"为什么"的孩子，我想我可以改变这个世界，不可能说服我。当我12岁的时候，在我高中的第一年，我开始为发展中国家的社区募集资金。我们是一群非常热情的孩子，我们筹集的钱比澳大利亚任何一所学校都要多。所以我获得了去菲律宾学习的机会。是1998年。我们被带进了马尼拉郊区的一个贫民窟。就在那里，我和桑尼男孩成为了朋友，他生活在一堆垃圾中。"烟山"就是他们所说的。但是不要让这个名字的浪漫来愚弄你，因为这只不过是一个垃圾填埋场，孩子们喜欢桑儿的孩子花了几个小时翻找每一天，寻找什么东西，任何有价值的东西。

That night with Sonny Boy and his family changed my life forever,
because when it came time to go to sleep, we simply laid down on this
concrete slab the size of half my bedroom with myself, Sonny Boy, and
the rest of his family, seven of us in this long line, with the smell of
rubbish all around us and cockroaches crawling all around. And I didn\'t
sleep a wink, but I lay awake thinking to myself, \"Why should anyone
have to live like this when I have so much? Why should Sonny Boy\'s
ability to live out his dreams be determined by where he\'s born, or
what Warren Buffett called \'the ovarian lottery?\'\" I just didn\'t get
it, and I needed to understand why.

那天晚上，桑儿和他的家人改变了我的一生，因为到了睡觉的时候，我们就躺在这个水泥板上，把我卧室的一半大小和我自己，小男孩，他家里的其他人，我们中的七个人，在这条长长的队伍里，到处都是垃圾的味道，到处都是蟑螂。我一点也没睡，但我清醒地想，"为什么我有这么多人，为什么还要这样生活？为什么Sonny男孩的生活能力取决于他出生的地方，或者沃伦巴菲特所说的"卵巢彩票"？"我只是没有得到，我需要理解为什么。

Now, I only later came to understand that the poverty I\'d seen in the
Philippines was the result of decisions made or not made, man-made, by a
succession of colonial powers and corrupt governments who had anything
but the interests of Sonny Boy at heart. Sure, they didn\'t create Smoky
Mountain, but they may as well have. And if we\'re to try to help kids
like Sonny Boy, it wouldn\'t work just to try to send him a few dollars
or to try to clean up the garbage dump on which he lived, because the
core of the problem lay elsewhere. And as I worked on community
development projects over the coming years trying to help build schools,
train teachers, and tackle HIV and AIDS, I came to see that community
development should be driven by communities themselves, and that
although charity is necessary, it\'s not sufficient. We need to confront
these challenges on a global scale and in a systemic way. And the best
thing I could do is try to mobilize a large group of citizens back home
to insist that our leaders engage in that systemic change.

现在，我后来才明白，我在菲律宾所看到的贫穷是由人为的决定造成的，一系列的殖民权力和腐败的政府，除了孩子们的利益以外，什么都没有。当然，他们没有创造烟雾山，但他们也可能有。如果我们想帮助像桑尼这样的孩子，那就不可能仅仅为了给他寄几块钱，或者试图清理他所居住的垃圾场，因为问题的核心在别处。当我在未来几年致力于社区发展项目，试图帮助建立学校、培训教师、解决艾滋病和艾滋病问题时，我看到社区发展应该由社区自己来推动，虽然慈善是必要的，但这是不够的。我们需要在全球范围内以系统的方式应对这些挑战。我所能做的最好的事情就是设法动员一大群人回家来坚持这样做.你们的领导人进行了系统的变革。

That\'s why, a few years later, I joined with a group of college friends
in bringing the Make Poverty History campaign to Australia. We had this
dream of staging this small concert around the time of the G20 with
local Aussie artists, and it suddenly exploded one day when we got a
phone call from Bono, the Edge and Pearl Jam, who all agreed to headline
our concert. I got a little bit excited that day, as you can see.

这就是为什么，几年后，我加入了一群大学的朋友，为澳大利亚带来了贫穷的历史运动。我们有一个梦想，就是在20国集团和当地的澳大利亚艺术家的时候举办一场小型音乐会，突然有一天，我们接到了波诺、边缘和珍珠果酱的电话，谁都同意把我们的音乐会作为头条新闻。你可以看到，那天我有点兴奋。

(Laughter)

（笑声）

But to our amazement, the Australian government heard our collective
voices, and they agreed to double investment into global health and
development \-- an additional 6.2 billion dollars. It felt like \--

但令我们惊讶的是，澳大利亚政府听到了我们的集体声音，他们同意将投资增加到全球健康和发展，增加了62亿美元。感觉就像

(Applause)

（掌声）

It felt like this incredible validation. By rallying citizens together,
we helped persuade our government to do the unthinkable, and act to fix
a problem miles outside of our borders.

这感觉像是难以置信的验证。通过团结公民，我们帮助说服我们的政府做了不可想象的事情，并采取行动解决了我们边界以外的问题。

But here\'s the thing: it didn\'t last. See, there was a change in
government, and six years later, all that new money disappeared. What
did we learn? We learned that one-off spikes are not enough. We needed a
sustainable movement, not one that is susceptible to the fluctuating
moods of a politician or the hint of an economic downturn. And it needed
to happen everywhere; otherwise, every individual government would have
this built-in excuse mechanism that they couldn\'t possibly carry the
burden of global action alone.

但事情是这样的：它没有持续。瞧，政府发生了变化，六年后，所有的新钱都不见了。我们学到了什么？我们了解到，一次性的峰值是不够的。我们需要一个可持续的运动，而不是一个容易受到政客情绪波动或经济衰退暗示的运动。它需要在任何地方发生，否则，每一个政府都会有一个内在的借口机制，他们不可能独自承担全球行动的负担。

And so this is what we embarked upon. And as we embarked upon this
challenge, we asked ourselves, how do we gain enough pressure and build
a broad enough army to win these fights for the long term? We could only
think of one way. We needed to somehow turn that short-term excitement
of people involved with the Make Poverty History campaign into long-term
passion. It had to be part of their identity. So in 2012, we cofounded
an organization that had exactly that as its goal. And there was only
one name for it: Global Citizen.

这就是我们所着手的。当我们开始这个挑战时，我们问自己，我们如何获得足够的压力，建立一个足够广泛的军队来赢得长期的战斗？我们只能想出一个办法。我们需要在某种程度上把参与贫困历史运动的人们的短期兴奋变成长期的激情。这必须是他们身份的一部分。所以在2012年，我们共同创立了一个组织，它的目标就是这样。它只有一个名字：全球公民。

But this is not about any one organization. This is about citizens
taking action. And research data tells us that of the total population
who even care about global issues, only 18 percent have done anything
about it. It\'s not that people don\'t want to act. It\'s often that
they don\'t know how to take action, or that they believe that their
actions will have no effect. So we had to somehow recruit and activate
millions of citizens in dozens of countries to put pressure on their
leaders to behave altruistically.

但这不是任何一个组织。这是关于公民采取行动。研究数据告诉我们，即使是关心全球问题的总人口中，只有18%的人对此做过任何事情。这并不是说人们不想采取行动。他们往往不知道如何采取行动，或者他们认为他们的行动不会有效果。因此，我们不得不以某种方式招募和激活了数十个国家的数百万公民，向他们的领导人施加压力，让他们表现出利他主义的行为。

And as we did so, we discovered something really thrilling, that when
you make global citizenship your mission, you suddenly find yourself
with some extraordinary allies. See, extreme poverty isn\'t the only
issue that\'s fundamentally global. So, too, is climate change, human
rights, gender equality, even conflict. We found ourselves shoulder to
shoulder with people who are passionate about targeting all these
interrelated issues.

当我们这样做的时候，我们发现了一些非常令人激动的事情，当你让全球公民成为你的使命时，你突然发现自己和一些特别的盟友在一起。看，极端贫穷并不是唯一的全球性问题。气候变化、人权、两性平等甚至冲突也是如此。我们发现自己与那些对所有这些相互关联的问题充满热情的人肩并肩。

But how did we actually go about recruiting and engaging those global
citizens? Well, we used the universal language: music. We launched the
Global Citizen Festival in the heart of New York City in Central Park,
and we persuaded some of the world\'s biggest artists to participate. We
made sure that these festivals coincided with the UN General Assembly
meeting, so that leaders who need to hear our voices couldn\'t possible
ignore them.

但我们究竟是如何着手招募和吸引那些全球公民的呢？我们使用了通用语言：音乐。我们在纽约市中心的中心公园举办了全球公民节，我们说服了一些世界上最大的艺术家参加。我们确保这些节日与联合国大会一致，以便那些需要倾听我们声音的领导人不能忽视他们。

But there was a twist: you couldn\'t buy a ticket. You had to earn it.
You had to take action on behalf of a global cause, and only once you\'d
done that could you earn enough points to qualify. Activism is the
currency. I had no interest in citizenship purely as some sort of
feel-good thing. For me, citizenship means you have to act, and that\'s
what we required. And amazingly, it worked. Last year, more than 155,000
citizens in the New York area alone earned enough points to qualify.
Globally, we\'ve now signed up citizens in over 150 countries around the
world. And last year, we signed up more than 100,000 new members each
and every week of the whole year.

但是有一个转折：你买不到票。你必须得挣钱。你必须代表一个全球性的事业采取行动，只有当你做到了，你才能获得足够的分数。行动主义是货币。我对公民身份没有兴趣，纯粹是因为某种感觉好的东西。对我来说，公民身份意味着你必须采取行动，这就是我们所需要的。令人惊讶的是，它起作用了。去年，仅纽约地区就有155000多名公民获得了足够的资格。在全球范围内，我们已经在全球150多个国家注册了公民。去年，我们每年都有超过10万名新会员加入。

See, we don\'t need to create global citizens from nothing. We\'re
already everywhere. We just need to be organized and motivated to start
acting. And this is where I believe we can learn a lot from Davinia, who
started taking action as a global citizen back in 2012. Here\'s what she
did. It wasn\'t rocket science. She started writing letters, emailing
politicians\' offices. She volunteered her time in her local community.
That\'s when she got active on social media and started to collect
pennies \-- a lot of pennies.

看，我们不需要从零开始创造全球公民。我们已经到处都是了。我们只是需要有组织和积极的开始行动。这就是我相信我们可以从达文尼那里学到很多东西的地方，他在2012年开始作为一个全球公民开始行动。这是她做的。这不是火箭科学。她开始写信，给政治家的办公室写信。她自愿在当地社区工作。那时，她在社交媒体上活跃起来，开始收集便士------很多便士。

Now, maybe that doesn\'t sound like a lot to you. How will that achieve
anything? Well, it achieved a lot because she wasn\'t alone. Her
actions, alongside 142,000 other global citizens\', led the US
government to double their investment into Global Partnership for
Education. And here\'s Dr. Raj Shah, the head of USAID, making that
announcement. See, when thousands of global citizens find inspiration
from each other, it\'s amazing to see their collective power. Global
citizens like Davinia helped persuade the World Bank to boost their
investment into water and sanitation. Here\'s the Bank\'s president Jim
Kim announcing 15 billion dollars onstage at Global Citizen, and Prime
Minister Modi of India affirmed his commitment to put a toilet in every
household and school across India by 2019. Global citizens encouraged by
the late-night host Stephen Colbert launched a Twitter invasion on
Norway. Erna Solberg, the country\'s Prime Minister, got the message,
committing to double investment into girls\' education. Global citizens
together with Rotarians called on the Canadian, UK, and Australian
governments to boost their investment into polio eradication. They got
together and committed 665 million dollars.

也许这对你来说不太重要这将如何实现？嗯，因为她并不孤单，所以取得了很多成就。她的行动，以及142000名其他全球公民的行动，使美国政府将其投资额增加一倍，成为全球教育合作伙伴。这里是美国国际开发署的负责人RajShah博士。看，当成千上万的全球公民从彼此身上找到灵感时，看到他们的集体力量是令人惊奇的。像Davinia这样的全球公民帮助说服世界银行增加他们对水和卫生的投资。这是世行行长金·金在全球公民舞台上宣布的150亿美元，印度总理莫迪重申了他承诺到2019年在印度的每一个家庭和学校都安装一个厕所。受深夜主持人斯蒂芬·科尔伯特的鼓励，全球公民对挪威发动了一次Twitter入侵。该国总理埃尔纳·索尔伯格（erna
solberg）得到了这一消息，承诺将对女孩的双重投资"教育。全球公民与扶轮社员一起呼吁加拿大、英国和澳洲政府增加对根除小儿麻痹症的投资。他们聚在一起，承诺6.65亿美元。

But despite all of this momentum, we face some huge challenges. See, you
might be thinking to yourself, how can we possibly persuade world
leaders to sustain a focus on global issues? Indeed, the powerful
American politician Tip O\'Neill once said, \"All politics is local.\"
That\'s what always got politicians elected: to seek, gain and hold onto
power through the pursuit of local or at very best national interests.

但是，尽管有这样的势头，我们仍面临一些巨大的挑战。看，你可能在想，我们怎么能说服世界领导人继续关注全球问题呢？事实上，这位美国政界有实力的政治家曾说："所有的政治都是地方性的。"这就是政客们的选择：通过追求地方或国家的最佳利益来寻求、获得和掌握权力。

I experienced this for the first time when I was 21 years old. I took a
meeting with a then-Australian Foreign Minister who shall remain
nameless \--

我在21岁的时候第一次体验到了这一点。我和一位澳大利亚外交部长开会，他应该是无名的。

\[Alexander Downer\]

\[Alexander Downer\]

(Laughter)

（笑声）

And behind closed doors, I shared with him my passion to end extreme
poverty. I said, \"Minister \-- Australia has this once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity to help achieve the Millennium Development Goals. We can do
this.\" And he paused, looked down on me with cold, dismissive eyes, and
he said, \"Hugh, no one gives a funk about foreign aid.\" Except he
didn\'t use the word \"funk.\" He went on. He said we need to look after
our own backyard first.

在紧闭的门后，我和他分享了结束极端贫穷的热情。我说，"部长------澳大利亚有这个千载难逢的机会来帮助实现千年发展目标。我们可以这样做。"他停了下来，用冷漠而轻蔑的目光看着我，他说："休，没有人会对外国援助感到恐惧。"除了他没有用"funk"这个词他接着说。他说我们需要先照顾好自己的后院。

This is, I believe, outdated, even dangerous thinking. Or as my late
grandfather would say, complete BS. Parochialism offers this false
dichotomy because it pits the poor in one country against the poor in
another. It pretends we can isolate ourselves and our nations from one
another. The whole world is our backyard, and we ignore it at our peril.
See, look what happened when we ignored Rwanda, when we ignore Syria,
when we ignore climate change. Political leaders ought to give a
\"funk\" because the impact of climate change and extreme poverty comes
right to our shore.

我认为，这是过时的，甚至是危险的想法。或者像我已故的祖父所说的那样，完成BS。狭隘主义提供了这种错误的二分法，因为它使一个国家的穷人与另一个国家的穷人对立。它假装我们可以孤立我们自己和我们的国家彼此。整个世界都是我们的后院，我们忽视它是危险的。看，当我们忽视了叙利亚，当我们忽视了气候变化时，我们忽略了卢旺达，我们会看到发生了什么。由于气候变化和极端贫困的影响，政治领导人应该给我们一个"恐惧"。

Now, global citizens \-- they understand this. We live in a time that
favors the global citizen, in an age where every single voice can be
heard. See, do you remember when the Millennium Development Goals were
signed back in the year 2000? The most we could do in those days was
fire off a letter and wait for the next election. There was no social
media. Today, billions of citizens have more tools, more access to
information, more capacity to influence than ever before. Both the
problems and the tools to solve them are right before us. The world has
changed, and those of us who look beyond our borders are on the right
side of history.

现在，全球公民------他们明白这一点。我们生活在一个有利于全球公民的时代，在这个时代，每一个声音都可以听到。你还记得2000年千年发展目标是什么时候签署的吗？在那些日子里，我们能做的最多的事情就是发一封信，等待下一次选举。没有社交媒体。今天，数以亿计的公民拥有更多的工具，更多地获得信息，比以往任何时候都更有影响力。问题和解决这些问题的工具都摆在我们面前。世界已经改变，我们这些超越国界的人站在历史的正确一边。

So where are we? So we run this amazing festival, we\'ve scored some big
policy wins, and citizens are signing up all over the world. But have we
achieved our mission? No. We have such a long way to go.

那么我们在哪里？因此，我们举办了这个令人惊叹的节日，我们取得了一些重大的政策胜利，而公民们也在全世界报名。但我们实现了我们的使命吗？没有。我们还有很长的路要走。

But this is the opportunity that I see. The concept of global
citizenship, self-evident in its logic but until now impractical in many
ways, has coincided with this particular moment in which we are
privileged to live. We, as global citizens, now have a unique
opportunity to accelerate large-scale positive change around the world.
So in the months and years ahead, global citizens will hold world
leaders accountable to ensure that the new Global Goals for Sustainable
Development are tracked and implemented. Global citizens will partner
with the world\'s leading NGOs to end diseases like polio and malaria.
Global citizens will sign up in every corner of this globe, increasing
the frequency, quality and impact of their actions. These dreams are
within reach. Imagine an army of millions growing into tens of millions,
connected, informed, engaged and unwilling to take no for an answer.

但这是我所看到的机会。全球公民权的概念在其逻辑上是不言自明的，但直到现在在许多方面都是不切实际的，与我们有幸生活的这一特定时刻正好吻合。作为全球公民，我们现在有一个独特的机会来加速全球范围内的大规模积极变革。因此，在今后的几个月和几年里，全球公民将对世界各国领导人负责，以确保对可持续发展的新的全球目标进行跟踪和执行。全球公民将与世界领先的非政府组织合作，以消灭小儿麻痹症和疟疾等疾病。全球公民将在这个世界的每个角落登记，增加他们行动的频率、质量和影响。这些梦想是遥不可及的。想象一下，一支数以百万计的军队正在成长为数以千万计的、有联系的、知情的、参与的、不愿意接受任何答案的军队。

Over all these years, I\'ve tried to reconnect with Sonny Boy. Sadly,
I\'ve been unable to. We met long before social media, and his address
has now been relocated by the authorities, as often happens with slums.
I\'d love to sit down with him, wherever he is, and share with him how
much the time I spent on Smoky Mountain inspired me. Thanks to him and
so many others, I came to understand the importance of being part of a
movement of people \-- the kids willing to look up from their screens
and out to the world, the global citizens. Global citizens who stand
together, who ask the question \"Why?,\" who reject the naysayers, and
embrace the amazing possibilities of the world we share.

这些年来，我一直在努力与桑尼男孩重新联系。可悲的是，我一直无法。我们在社交媒体前很久就认识了，他的地址现在已经被当局重新安置了，就像经常发生在贫民窟里一样。我愿意和他坐在一起，无论他在哪里，和他分享我在烟雾缭绕的山上花了多少时间激励我。多亏了他和其他许多人，我才认识到成为一个运动的一员的重要性\--孩子们愿意从屏幕上抬起头来，向世界、全球的公民们看。站在一起的全球公民，谁问"为什么？"，谁拒绝了反对者，并拥抱我们所分享的世界的惊人的可能性。

I\'m a global citizen.

我是一个全球公民。

Are you?

是吗？

Thank you.

谢谢。

(Applause)

（掌声）
